=head1 Description

The ADDVAR macro produces added variable plots (C<TYPE=AVP>) for the
effect of adding a variable to a logistic regression model, or a
constructed variable plot (C<TYPE=CVP>) for the effect of transforming
a variable.

For a model with a binary response, Y, and predictors in the list
X, an added variable plot may be constructed for a new predictor,
Z, by plotting the residuals of Y given X against the residuals
of Z given X.  A linear relation in this plot indicates that Z
should be included in the model, but observations with extreme
Z-residuals would be highly influential in this decision.  A line
fitted to this plot should have an intercept approximately zero,
and a slope approximating the coefficient of Z in the full model.

The constructed variable plot is designed to detect nonlinear dependence
of Y on one of the X variables, say X[j].  It is an added variable
plot for the constructed variable, Z = X[j] log X[j].

=head1 Usage

The addvar macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<X=>, C<Y=>,
and C<Z=> parameters must be specified.  A C<TRIALS=> variable may be
specified if the data are in events/trials form.  The arguments
may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated by commas.
For example:

  %addvar(data=icu, y=Died,  x=age admit cancer uncons, z=Systolic,
     id=patient, loptions=order=data noprint);

This gives an AVP for the variable Systolic, when added to the C<X=>
variables in the model predicting C<Y=DIED>.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input data set to be analyzed.
[Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

Specifies the name of the response variable.

=item TRIALS=

Name of trials variable for event/trial

=item X=

Specifies the names of the predictor variables in the model

=item Z=

Name of the added variable

=item ID=

Name of observation ID variable (char)

=item LOPTIONS=

Options for PROC LOGISTIC [Default: C<LOPTIONS=NOPRINT>]

=item SMOOTH=

Lowess smoothing parameter [Default: C<SMOOTH=0.5>]

=item SUBSET=

Subset of points to label [Default: C<SUBSET=ABS(STUDRES)E<gt>2>]

=item OUT=

Specifies the name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=_RES_>]

=item SYMBOL=

Plotting symbol for points [Default: C<SYMBOL=DOT>]

=item INTERP=

Interpolation options for points [Default: C<INTERP=RL CI=RED>]

=item TYPE=

Type of plot: AVP (for an added-variable plot) or CVP (for a constructed variable plot) [Default: C<TYPE=AVP>]

=item NAME=

Name of graph in graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=ADDVAR>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the graphics catalog

=back 4
