=head1 Description

The AGREE program is a collection of SAS/IML modules for preparing
observer agreement charts which portray the agreement between two
raters.

=head1 Usage

The modules are typically loaded into the SAS/IML workspace with
the %include statement.  The required input parameters are specified
with IML statements, and the AGREE module is called as follows,

  proc iml;
     %include 'path/to/agree.sas';
     *-- set global variables, if desired;     
     font = 'hwpsl009';
     htext=1.3;

     *-- data, labels, title, weights;
     freq =
        {  5     3     0      0,
           3    11     4      0,
           2    13     3      4,
           1     2     4     14 };
     vnames = {"New Orleans Neurologist" "Winnipeg Neurologist"};
     lnames = {"Certain" "Probable" "Possible" "Doubtful"};
     title  = "Multiple Sclerosis: New Orleans patients";
     w = 1;         *-- diagonals onl   , or ...;
     w = {1 (8/9)}; *-- diagonals + 1-off;
     run agree(freq, w, vnames, lnames, title);

=head2 Parameters

The required parameters for the run agree statement are:

=over 4

=item table

A square numeric matrix containing the contingency table
to be analyzed.

=item weight

A vector of one or more weights used to give ``partial
credit'' for disagreements by one or more categories.
To ignore all but exact agreements, let weight=1.  
To take into account agreements one-step apart (with a 
weight of 5/6), let C<weight={1 5/6}>.

=item vnames

A character vector of two elements, containing the names
of the row and column variables.

=item lnames

A character vector containing the names of the row and
column categories.  If table is I<n x n>, then
lnames should contain I<n> elements.

=item title

A character string containing the title for the plot.

=back 4

=head2 Global input variables

The program uses two global variables to determine the font and
character height for text in the agreement chart.

=over 4

=item font

A character string specifying the font used.
The default is Helvetica ('hwpsl009') if a PostScript
driver is being used, SWISS otherwise.

=item htext

A numeric value specifying the height of text characters.

=back 4

