=head1 Description

The AGREEPLOT macro produces a graphic display of agreement in a 
square n x n contingency table, typically arising when observations
are classified on the same scale by two raters or instruments.
The display shows both the observed agreement and the expected
agreement by superposed shaded and white rectangles, respectively.

This macro provides a more convenient macro interface to
the SAS/IML modules for agreement plots, so that you can input
a SAS data set (in frequency form), rather than constructing the
arrays used by the IML modules. It also provides the
means to produce multiple agreement plots for two-way tables stratified
by other C<BY=> variables.

In SAS 9.3, these plots are now provided directly by PROC FREQ under
ODS graphics, when the AGREE option is specified on the TABLES statement.
Other C<PLOT()=AGREEPLOT> sub-options allow some control of the details of 
these plots.

=head1 Usage

The AGREEPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %agreeplot(data=sexfun, var=Husband Wife);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Names of factor variables, including C<BY=> variables.  The first
             two variables are used as the rows and columns of the
          agreement plot.

=item BY=

Specifies the names of one (or more) By variables.  Partial
             agreement plots are produced for each combination of the levels
             of the C<BY=> variables.  The C<BY=> variable(s) *must* be listed among
             the C<VAR=> variables.


=item COUNT=

Name of the frequency variable [Default: C<COUNT=COUNT>]

=item WEIGHTS=

Specifies weights for exact agreement and for steps removed 
             from exact agreement, both in the plot and in the calculation
          of the Bangdiwala agreement strength statistic. C<WEIGHTS=1 >counts
          only exact agreement. C<WEIGHTS=LIN2 >or C<WEIGHTS=CA2 >uses inverse
          linear (Cicchetti-Allison) weights: 1, 1/(n-1) for an n x n
          table.  C<WEIGHTS=SQ2 >or C<WEIGHTS=FC2 >uses inverse square
          (Fleiss-Cohen) weights, 1, 1/(n-1)**2. You can also use an
          IML expression that evaluates to a row vector starting with 1,
          e.g., C<WEIGHTS=1 >|| 1-1/(n-1) or WEIGHTS={1 0.5}.

=item COLORS=

Specifies colors for exact agreement and for one or more steps 
             removed from exact agreement.  [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK GRAY>]

=item FILLS=

Specifies fill patterns for exact agreement and for one or more steps 
             removed from exact agreement.  [Default: C<FILLS=SOLID LR>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text value labels. Variable names are scaled up from
             this by a factor of 1.4 [Default: C<HTEXT=1.5>]

=item FONT=

Font for text labels. Internal code uses the hardware font
             HWPSl009 by default for PostScript devices and SWISS otherwise.

=item LABROT=

Rotation angles for the horizontal and  vertical value labels 
             [Default: C<LABROT=0 90>]

=item TITLE=

Title for plot(s).  When there are C<BY=> variables, a string
             indicating their levels is appended.

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=WORK.GSEG>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=AGREE>]


=back 4

=head1 Examples

 proc format;
  value rating 1='Never_fun' 2='Fairly_often' 
               3='Very_often' 4='Almost_always';
 data sexfun;
   label Husband = 'Husband rating'
          Wife    = 'Wife Rating';
   format Husband Wife rating.;
   do Husband = 1 to 4;
   do Wife    = 1 to 4;
     input count @@;
     output;
     end; end;
 datalines;
  7     7     2      3
  2     8     3      7
  1     5     4      9
  2     8     9     14
 ;

 *-- Convert numbers to formatted values;
 %table(data=sexfun, var=Husband Wife, char=true, weight=count, out=table);
 %agreeplot(data=table, var=Husband Wife, title=Husband and Wife Sexual Fun);



=head1 Bugs

With C<BY=> variables, the graphs are correct, but the BN statistics
dont use the given WEIGHTS.

