=head1 Description

The ALLEFF macro constructs a side-by-side plot of the values of
main effects, interactions, and residuals for any linear model,
as described in SSSG, Section 7.4.3, and Hoaglin et al. (1991), 
`Fundamentals of Exploratory Analysis of Variance', Wiley.

The goal is to display the effect values for the levels of all
main effects and interactions, together with the values of residuals
(whose mean square is the MSE) in a single comprehensive display.

=head1 Usage

The EFFPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<RESPONSE=>
and C<MODEL=> parameters are required.  The arguments may be listed
within parentheses in any order, separated by commas. For example:

  %alleff(data=rats, response=gain, model=amount feed amount*feed);


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item RESPONSE=

The name of the response variable in the model  

=item MODEL=

A blank-separated list of terms in a MODEL statement for GLM.  In 
this version, all model variables are treated as CLASS
variables, and the terms in the model may not use GLM '|' notation.  
That is, a two-way factorial design should be specified
as C<MODEL=A B A>*B, rather than A|B.

=item PRINT=

Things to print: Any one or more of DESIGN FIT EFFECT LABEL

=item SCALE=

If non-blank, the effect values are scaled by sqrt(n/df),
 so that their values are comparable as mean squares.  Use
 C<SCALE=1 >when the goal is to see the size of the effects
 in relation to the size of the MSE.  [This should probably
 be the default, but is not.]

=item VAXIS=

AXIS statement for vertical axis.  If not specified,
             the program uses C<AXIS1 LABEL=(A=90)> and C<VAXIS=AXIS1>.

=item HAXIS=

AXIS statement for horizontal axis.  If not specified,
             the program uses C<AXIS2 OFFSET=(4)> and C<HAXIS=AXIS2>.  For 3+
             factors, it also uses C<VALUE=(A=-20)> to allow longer effect labels to
             fit on the horizontal axis.

=item HTEXT=

Height of text labels for effects.  If not specified, the
             global HTEXT goption is used.

=item SYMBOLS=

A list of SAS/Graph symbols to be used for 1-factor (main)
effects, 2-factor effects, 3-factor effects, ...
There should be as many symbols as factors in the design.
Using the defaults for C<SYMBOLS=>, C<COLORS>= and C<INTERP=> causes
the program to generate the following SYMBOL statements:

  symbol1 value=dot color=blue interpol=none h=1.5;
  symbol2 value=square color=red interpol=hilob h=1.5;
  symbol3 value=none color=green interpol=hilob h=1.5;
  symbol4 v=none i=none c=black;

Alternatively, you can define your own SYMBOL statements,
SYMBOL1, SYMBOL2, ... before calling ALLEFF and specify
C<SYMBOLS=SYMB>.  In this case, no SYMBOL statements are
generated internally.  [Default: C<SYMBOLS=DOT SQUARE NONE>]

=item COLORS=

A list of SAS/Graph colors to be used for 1-factor (main)
effects, 2-factor effects, 3-factor effects, ... of length
equal to the number of factors.  Ignored if C<SYMBOLS=SYMB>.
[Default: C<COLORS=BLUE RED GREEN>]

=item INTERP=

A list of SAS/Graph interpolation options to be used for 1-factor (main)
effects, 2-factor effects, 3-factor effects, ... of length
equal to the number of factors.   Ignored if C<SYMBOLS=SYMB.>
[Default: C<INTERP=NONE NONE HILOB>]

=item HSYM=

Height of symbols in generated SYMBOL statements.  Ignored if C<SYMBOLS=SYMB>.
             [Default: C<HSYM=1.5>]

=item RESIDS=

Specifies how to display the residuals in the plot.  At present,
only C<RESIDS=BOXAXIS> is recognized, which causes the program to use
the BOXAXIS macro to draw a boxplot of residuals after the final model
effect. 

=item OUTFIT=

Output data set containing effect values as columns.
             The effect values are named by abbreviating the model
             variables to 1 or 2 characters. [Default: C<OUTFIT=OUTFIT>]

=item OUTEFF=

Output data set containing effect values in the form used
             for the plot.

=item NAME=

Name for the graphics catalog entry. [Default: C<NAME=ALLEFF>]

=item GOUT=

Name for the graphics catalog used to store the plot. [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head2 Requires

  SAS/IML
  boxaxis
  combine
  expglm (experimental)

=head2 Limitations

Only handles fully crossed designs, though not all terms need be included
in the model.

All model terms are treated as CLASS variables.  Under SAS V <7, there
is a limit of 4 factors.

Should incorporate the necessary macro code to construct the design
matrix directly, rather than relying on IML routines from desmat.sas.
(use GLMMOD)

=head2 Acknowledgements

=over 4

=item  

Jack Hamilton and Ian Whitlock helped solve some thorny problems
 in manipulating the effect data into the form required for plotting.

=item 

John Hendrickx provided the %DESMAT macro and supporting IML routines.

=back 4

