=head1 Description

The ANDREWS macro calculates a periodic function, z(t), composed of sin
and cosine components to represent each observation in a multivariate
sample.  The macro plots this function vs. t, from -pi to +pi.

Two function types may be calculate and plotted.  The original version,
from Andrews (1972) defines

  z(t) = Y1/sqrt(2) + Y2 sin(t) + Y3 cos(t) + Y4 sin(2t) + Y5 cos (2t) + ...

A modified version, suggested by Khattree and Naik (2001) defines

  z(t) = [Y1 + Y2 (sin(t)+cos(t)) + Y3 (sin(t)-cos(t)) +
          Y4 (sin(2t)+cos(2t)) + Y5 (sin(2t)-cos(2t)) + ...]/sqrt(2)

and appears to separate distinct observations better than the
original formulation.

These plots assume that the variables are measured on the same scale.
If not, it is usually worthwhile to standardize them first, using
either C<PROC STANDARD M=0 S>=1, or scaling each variable to a [0,1]
range with C<PROC STDIZE METHOD=RANGE.>

=head1 Usage

The ANDREWS macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %andrews(var=x1-x8, id=name);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of variables to plot.  You can list variables
             individually, or use any of the SAS shorthand notations,
             such as C<VAR=X-X101> or C<VAR=INCOME--STATUS1>.
             [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item ID=

Name of an ID variable (character or numeric), used in the 
             legend for the curves, or as a curve label  [Default: C<ID=_N_>]

=item TYPE=

Type of function: ORIGinal or MODified [Default: C<TYPE=ORIG>]

=item NUMPTS=

Number of function points (-1) calculated for each
             observation, on the range -pi to pi. [Default: C<NUMPTS=80>]

=item ANNO=

Name of an optional input annotate data set.   

=item OUT=

Name of the output data set.  The output data set
             contains the variables Z, T, and ID, and (NUMPTS+1)*nobs
             observations. [Default: C<OUT=ANDREWS>]

=item PLOT=

Draw the plot? [Default: C<PLOT=Y>]

=item VAXIS=

Custom vertical axis statement, e.g., C<VAXIS=AXIS1>,
             where you have defined AXIS1 before calling the macro.
             If not specified, the macro uses

                  axis98 offset=(2) label=(angle=90 rotate=0);

=item HAXIS=

Custom horizontal axis statement, e.g., C<HAXIS=AXIS2.>
             If not specified, the macro uses

                 axis99 order=(-3.1416 to 3.1416 by 1.5708)
                    value=(font=greek '-p' '-p/2' '0' 'p/2' 'p')
                    offset=(2);

=item SYMBOLS=

Plotting symbols for the observations. [Default: C<SYMBOLS=NONE>]

=item COLORS=

List of colors to be used for the observations.
             [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED GREEN BLUE BROWN YELLOW ORANGE PURPLE>]

=item LINES=

List of line styles for observations.
             [Default: C<LINES=1 20 41 21 7 14 33 12 5>]

=item LEGEND=

Name of a LEGEND statement, to alter the default placement
             or characteristics of the legend for observations.

=item IDLOC=

If non-blank, the legend is suppressed, and the curves are
             labeled using the C<ID=> variable to the right of the last
             point plotted for each observation.

=item YLABEL=

Y-axis label. [Default: YLABEL=z(t)]

=item XLABEL=

X-axis label. [Default: XLABEL=t]

=item NAME=

Name of graphics catalog entry. [Default: C<NAME=ANDREWS>]

=item GOUT=

Name of graphics catalog. [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head1 References

Andrews, D. F. (1972).  Plots of high dimensional data.  Biometrics,
  28, 125-136.

Khattree, R. and Naik, D. N. (2001).  Andrews plots for multivariate data:
  Some new suggestions and applications. J. Stat. Planning and Inference,
  100(2), 411-425.



