=head1 Description

The AXIS macro creates an C<ANNOTATE=> data set to draw an X or Y axis
on a graph.  The values labeled on the axis can be expressed on any
transformed scale which can be represented as a SAS expression. This
is useful when you can't use a PLOT2 statement to draw a right vertical
axis, or when you want to show the values on some transformed scale.

Typically you will need to adjust the boundaries of the plot to allow for
the additional axis, e.g., with the C<OFFSET=> parameter of an AXIS statement
or by allowing extra space at the top or right of the plot.

=head1 Usage

The AXIS macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

       %axis();

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item ON=

X or Y: axis to be drawn.  C<ON=X >draws a horizontal axis
             C<ON=Y >draws a vertical axis   [Default: C<ON=X>]

=item AT=

Location on other axis (2<=AT<=98).  [Default: C<AT=98>]

=item ATUNIT=

Unit in which the C<AT=> value is given. PCT means percent of the
             graphics data region.  Any other value is treated as meaning
             data coordinates. [Default: C<ATUNIT=PCT>]

=item VALUES=

List of tick mark values, in any of the forms that can be
             used in a DO statement, e.g.,

             C<VALUES=10>, 25, 50, 100
             C<VALUES=10 >to 100 by 20

=item FUNCTION=

Function of VALUE giving the data value on the scale of the
             data that is plotted. [Default: C<FUNCTION=VALUE>]

=item HTICK=

Height of tick marks [Default: C<HTICK=1>]

=item FMT=

Format for printing value labels [Default: C<FMT=BEST8.>]

=item MINOR=

Number of minor tick marks [Default: C<MINOR=1>]

=item LABEL=

Axis label.  

=item OUT=

Name of output annotate data set  [Default: C<OUT=AXIS>] 


=back 4

