=head1 Description

The BARS macro creates an Annotate data set to draw error bars
in a plot.  The error bars may be drawn for a response variable 
displayed on the Y axis or on the X axis.  The other (C<CLASS=>)
variable may be character or numeric.  

=head1 Usage

The BARS macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=> and C<CLASS=>
variables must be specified.  The length of the error bars should be
specified with either the C<BARLEN=> parameter or the C<LOWER=> and C<UPPER=>
parameters.

The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %bars(class=age, var=logodds, lower=lower, upper=upper);
  proc gplot data=mydata;
     plot logodds * age / anno=_bars_;

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Name of the response variable, to be plotted on the
axis given by the C<BAXIS=> parameter.

=item CLASS=

Name of the independent variable, plotted on the
other axis.

=item CVAR=

Name of a curve variable, when PROC GPLOT is used with
the statement C<PLOT &VAR * &CLASS = &CVAR>.

=item BY=

Name of a BY variable for multiple plots, when PROC GPLOT
is used with the statement C<BY &BY;>.

=item BAXIS=

One of X or Y, indicating the axis along which error bars
are drawn [Default: C<BAXIS=Y>]

=item BARLEN=

A numeric variable or constant giving the error bar length,
for example, when the input data set contains a standard
error variable or multiple thereof.  If C<BARLEN=> is given,
the C<LOWER=> and C<UPPER=> values are ignored, and error bars
are drawn at the values &VAR +- &Z * &BARLEN.

=item Z=

A numeric value giving the multiplier of the C<BARLEN=>
value used to determine the lower and upper error bar
values.

=item LOWER=

A numeric variable or constant giving the lower error bar value.
Use the C<LOWER=> and C<UPPER=> parameters if the error bars are
non-symmetric or if the lower and upper values are contained
as separate variables in the input data set.

=item UPPER=

A numeric variable or constant giving the upper error bar value.

=item TYPE=

Type of error bars to be drawn: one of C<UPPER>, C<LOWER>, or C<BOTH>
and possibly one of C<ALT> or C<ALTBY>.  C<TYPE=LOWER> draws only the
lower error bars; C<TYPE=UPPER> draws only the upper error bars;
C<TYPE=BOTH> draws both upper and lower error bars.  Use
C<TYPE=ALT BOTH> to have the error bars alternate (lower, upper)
over observations in the input data set;  use
C<TYPE=ALTBY BOTH> to have the error bars alternate over values
of the C<BY=> variable. [Default: C<TYPE=BOTH>]

=item SYMBOL=

The plotting symbol, drawn at (C<&CLASS, &var>).  If not specified,
no symbols are drawn.

=item COLOR=

Color for lines and symbols, a character constant (enclosed
in quotes), or variable name [Default: C<COLOR='BLACK'>]

=item LINE=

The Annotate line style used for error bars [Default: C<LINE=1>]

=item SIZE=

Size of symbols and thickness of lines [Default: C<SIZE=1>]

=item BARWIDTH=

The width of error bar tops, in data units [Default:
C<BARWIDTH=.5>]

=item OUT=

Name of the output data set, to be used as an Annotate
data set with PROC GPLOT [Default: C<OUT=_BARS_>]


=back 4
