=head1 Description

The BIPLOT macro produces generalized biplot displays for multivariate
data, and for two-way and multi-way tables of either quantitative
or frequency data.  It also produces labeled plots of the row and
column points in 2 dimensions, with a variety of graphic options,
and the facility to equate the axes automatically.


=head2 Input data

The macro takes input in one of two forms:

(a) A data set in table form, where the columns are separate
variables and the rows are separate observations (identified by
a row ID variable).    In this arrangment, use the C<VAR=> argument
to specify this list of variables and the C<ID=> variable to specify
an additional variable whose values are labels for the rows.

Assume a dataset of reaction times to 4 topics in 3 experimental tasks,
in a SAS dataset like this:

    TASK   TOPIC1   TOPIC2   TOPIC3   TOPIC4
    Easy     2.43     3.12     3.68     4.04
    Medium   3.41     3.91     4.07     5.10
    Hard     4.21     4.65     5.87     5.69

For this arrangment, the macro would be invoked as follows:

  %biplot(var=topic1-topic4, id=task);

(b) A contingency table in frequency form (e.g., the output from
PROC FREQ), or multi-way data in the univariate format used as
input to PROC GLM.  In this case, there will be two or more factor
(class) variables, and one response variable, with one observation
per cell.  For this form, you must use the C<VAR=> argument to
specify the two (or more) factor (class) variables, and specify
the name of response variable as the C<RESPONSE=> parameter. Do not specify
an C<ID=> variable for this form.

For contingency table data, the response will be the cell frequency, and
you will usually use the C<POWER=0> parameter to perform an analysis of
the log frequency.

The same data in this format would have 12 observations, and look like:

     TASK  TOPIC    RT
     Easy    1     2.43
     Easy    2     3.12
     Easy    3     3.68
     ...
     Hard    4     5.69

For this arrangment, the macro would be invoked as follows:

  %biplot(var=topic task, response=RT);

In this arrangement, the order of the C<VAR=> variables does not matter.
The columns of the two-way table are determined by the variable which
varies most rapidly in the input dataset (topic, in the example).

=head1 Usage

The BIPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=>
parameter must be specified, together with either one C<ID=> variable
or one C<RESPONSE=> variable.

The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %biplot();

The plot may be re-drawn or customized using the output C<OUT=>
data set of coordinates and the C<ANNO=> Annotate data set.

The graphical representation of biplots requires that the axes in the
plot are equated, so that equal distances on the ordinate and abscissa
represent equal data units (to perserve distances and angles in the plot).
A '+', whose vertical and horizontal lengths should be equal,
is drawn at the origin to indicate whether this has been achieved.

If you do not specifiy the C<HAXIS=> and C<YAXIS=> parameters, 
the EQUATE macro is called to generate the AXIS statements to equate the
axes.  In this case the C<INC=>, C<XEXTRA=>, and C<YEXTRA=>, parameters
may be used to control the details of the generated AXIS statements.

By default, the macro produces and plots a two-dimensional solution.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input data set to be analyzed.
 [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Specifies the names of the column variables 
when the data are in table form, or the names of the
factor variables when the data are in frequency form
or GLM form. [Default: C<VAR=_NUM_>]

=item ID=

Observation ID variable when the data are in table form.

=item RESPONSE=

Name of the response variable (for GLM form)    

=item DIM=

Specifies the number of dimensions of the CA/MCA solution.
Only two dimensions are plotted by the PPLOT and GPLOT options,
however. [Default: C<DIM=2>]

=item FACTYPE=

Biplot factor type: GH, SYM, JK or COV [Default: C<FACTYPE=SYM>]

=item VARDEF=

Variance def for C<FACTYPE=COV>: DF | N [Default: C<VARDEF=DF>]

=item SCALE=

Scale factor for variable vectors [Default: C<SCALE=1>]

=item POWER=

Power transform of response [Default: C<POWER=1>]

=item OUT=

Specifies the name of the output data set of coordinates.
[Default: C<OUT=BIPLOT>]

=item ANNO=

Specifies the name of the annotate data set of labels
produced by the macro.  [Default: C<ANNO=BIANNO>]

=item STD=

How to standardize columns: NONE | MEAN | STD [Default: C<STD=MEAN>]

=item COLORS=

Colors for OBS and VARS [Default: C<COLORS=BLUE RED>]

=item SYMBOLS=

Symbols for OBS and VARS [Default: C<SYMBOLS=NONE NONE>]

=item INTERP=

Markers/interpolation for OBS and VARS. [Default: C<INTERP=NONE VEC>]

=item LINES=

Lines for OBS and VARS interpolation [Default: C<LINES=33 20>]

=item PPLOT=

Produce a printer plot? [Default: C<PPLOT=NO>]

=item VTOH=

The vertical to horizontal aspect ratio (height of one
character divided by the width of one character) of the
printer device, used to equate axes for a printer plot,
when C<PPLOT=YES>. [Default: C<VTOH=2>]

=item GPLOT=

Produce a graphics plot? [Default: C<GPLOT=YES>]

=item PLOTREQ=

The dimensions to be plotted [Default: C<PLOTREQ=DIM2*DIM1>]

=item HAXIS=

AXIS statement for horizontal axis.  If both C<HAXIS=> and
C<VAXIS=> are omitted, the program calls the EQUATE macro to
define suitable axis statements.  This creates the axis
statements AXIS98 and AXIS99, whether or not a graph
is produced.

=item VAXIS=

The name of an AXIS statement for the vertical axis.

=item INC=

The length of X and Y axis tick increments, in data units
(for the EQUATE macro).  Ignored if C<HAXIS=> and C<VAXIS=> are
specified. [Default: C<INC=0.5 0.5>]

=item XEXTRA=

Number of extra X axis tick marks at the left and right.  Use to
allow extra space for labels. [Default: C<XEXTRA=0 0>]

=item YEXTRA=

Number of extra Y axis tick marks at the bottom and top.
[Default: C<YEXTRA=0 0>]

=item M0=

Length of origin marker, in data units. [Default: M0=0.5]

=item DIMLAB=

Prefix for dimension labels [Default: C<DIMLAB=Dimension>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graphics catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=BIPLOT>]        

=back 4

