=head1 Description

The BOXGLM macro computes the maximum likelihood power transformation
(or folded-power transformation) of the response variable in a general
linear model with zero or more predictors.  It produces a variety of plots,
including a display of the maximum likelihood solution, t-values for
effects in the model, and an influence plot of the observations in
determining the power.  The optimal transformation of the response
variable is returned in an output dataset.

If the response variable is bounded on a closed interval, [0, b],
the C<FOLD=> parameter may be used to obtain analogous folded-power
transformations.  For example, use C<FOLD=100 >when the response
variable is a percentage on the interval [0, 100].

=head2 Method

The program uses transforms the response to all powers from
the C<LOPOWER=> value to the C<HIPOWER=> value, and fits a GLM
for each, extracting values to an output dataset from
which the plots are drawn.


=head1 Usage

The BOXGLM macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<RESP=>
and C<MODEL=> parameters are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %boxglm(data=duncan, resp=prestige, model=income educ, id=job);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item RESP=

Name of the response variable for analysis

=item MODEL=

The independent variables in the model, i.e., the 
             terms on the right side of the = sign in the MODEL statement 
             for PROC GLM.  The C<MODEL=> argument should be spelled
             out completely, rather than using the abbreviated 'bar'
             notation.

=item CLASS=

A blank-separated list of the C<MODEL=> variables which are classification
             factors, rather than continuous variables.

=item ID=

Name of an ID variable for observations used as labels in
             the INFL plot.

=item DATA=

The name of the data set holding the response and predictor
             variables.  [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item OUT=

Output dataset with transformed resp. Contains all original
             variables, with the transformed response replacing the 
             original variable. [Default: C<OUT=_DATA_>]

=item OUTPLOT=

Output dataset for plot of powers Contains _RMSE_, and 
             t-values for each effect in the model, with one observation
             for each power value tried. [Default: C<OUTPLOT=_PLOT_>]

=item PPLOT=

Printer plots: One or more of RMSE, LOGL, EFFECT, and INFL
             [Default: C<PPLOT=NONE>]

=item GPLOT=

Graphic plots: One or more of RMSE, LOGL, EFFECT, and INFL 
             [Default: C<GPLOT=RMSE EFFECT INFL>]

=item ADD=

Additive constant for response, used to avoid problems when
             the response can be negative or zero.

=item FOLD=

Upper bound on the response when the response
             is bounded above and below.. 
          If FOLD>0 is specified, folded power transformations 
          are computed. E.g., for a response which is a proportion, 
          specify C<FOLD=1>; for a percentage, specify C<FOLD=100.>
          [Default: C<FOLD=0>]

=item LOPOWER=

Low value for power [Default: LOPOWER=-2]

=item HIPOWER=

High value for power [Default: C<HIPOWER=2>]

=item NPOWER=

Number of power values in interval [Default: C<NPOWER=21>]

=item CONF=

Confidence coefficient of CI on power [Default: C<CONF=0.95>]



=back 4

