=head1 Description

The BOXPLOT macro draws side-by-side boxplots for the groups
defined by one or more grouping (CLASS) variables in a data set.
The boxplots may be formatted horizontally or vertically,
they may be shown with "notches", indicating approximate
95% confidence intervals for difference in medians,
and the groups may be ordered in a variety of ways.

=head1 Usage

The BOXPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %boxplot(data=auto, var=mpg, class=origin);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item WHERE=

WHERE clause to subset the data

=item CLASS=

Grouping variable(s).  The C<CLASS=> variables
             may be character or numeric.  If the C<CLASS=> variable
          is a character variable, or there is more than one
          C<CLASS=> variable, the macro automatically constructs
          a SAS format to label the groups

=item VAR=

The name of the response variable to be plotted.
          The C<VAR=> variable is plotted on the ordinate when C<ORIENT=V >and on
          the abscissa when C<ORIENT=H.>

=item ID=

A character variable to identify each observation.  
             If an C<ID=> variable is specified,
             outside variables are labelled on the graph,
             using the first 8 characters of the value of
             the ID variable (to reduce overplotting).
             Otherwise, outside points are not labelled.

=item SORTBY=

Specifies a variable or statistic keyword used to
          order the levels of the C<CLASS=> variables along the class axis.
          If C<SORTBY=> is not specified, the classes are ordered along the
          axis in sorted order (using the format specified by C<CLASSFMT=>
          if that has been used).
          Otherwise, you can specify the name of a variable in the dataset,
          or one of the statistics,
          _MEAN_, _MEDIAN_, N (no underscores), _Q1_, or _Q3_
          and the classes will be ordered on the axis according to the
          values of that statistic for each group.

=item OFACTOR=

IQR multiplier for outside values [Default: C<OFACTOR=1.5>]

=item OLABEL=

Outliers to label: Either ALL or FAR. [Default: C<OLABEL=ALL>]

=item IDSYMBOL=

Symbols used for outside, and far-out observations.
             [Default: C<IDSYMBOL=DIAMOND SQUARE>]

=item MEANSYMBOL=

Symbol to use for the mean of each group. [Default: C<MEANSYMBOL=DOT>]

=item SYMHEIGHT=

Symbol height for outside, and far-out [Default: C<SYMHEIGHT=2 2.5>]

=item IDHEIGHT=

Text height for outside, and far-out [Default: C<IDHEIGHT=1>]

=item WIDTH=

Box width as proportion of the maximum.
             The default, C<WIDTH=.5>, means that the maximum
             box width is half the spacing between boxes.
            [Default: C<WIDTH=.5>]

=item NOTCH=

Specifies whether or not to draw notched
             boxes.  1=draw notched boxes; 0=do not.  See also the
          C<CNOTCH=> parameter for a different style of notched
          boxplots.

=item CBOX=

Color of the box outline [Default: C<CBOX=BLACK>]

=item CFILL=

Color for filling the boxes.

=item CNOTCH=

Color for notch fill.  If specified, the area
          between the upper/lower notches is filled using a solid pattern and the
          CNOTCH color.  This is often an alternative to drawing explicit
          notches.

=item LBOX=

Line style for the box outline [Default: C<LBOX=1>]

=item SBOX=

Line thickness for the box outline [Default: C<SBOX=1>]

=item ORIENT=

Box orientation: V gives vertical boxes, H gives
          horizontal boxes.  If the labels for the C<CLASS=> variables are longish,
          horizontal boxes are preferred, since the labels will appear on the
          Y axis. [Default: C<ORIENT=V>]

=item CONNECT=

Specifies the line style used to connect
             medians of adjacent groups.  If C<CONNECT=0>, the
             medians of adjacent groups are not to be
             connected.

=item F=

For a notched boxplot, the parameter F
             determines the notch depth, from the center of
             the box as a fraction of the halfwidth of each
             box.  F must be between 0 and 1; the larger the
             value, the less deep is the notch. [Default: C<F=0.5>]

=item FN=

Box width proportionality factor.  The
             default, C<FN=1 >means all boxes are the same
             width.  If you specify C<FN=sqrt(n)>, the boxes
             width will be proportional to the square root
             of the sample size of each group.  Other
             functions of  n  are possible as well.
             [Default: C<FN=1>]

=item VARFMT=

The name of a format for the C<VAR=> analysis variable.

=item CLASSFMT=

If the CLASS variable is a character variable, or
          there are two or more CLASS variables, the program maps the sorted
          values of the class variable(s) into the integers 1, 2, ... 
          levels, where  levels is the number of distinct values
          of the class variable(s).  A format provided for CLASSFMT should
          therefore provide labels corresponding to the numbers 1, 2, ...
          to the number of levels.

=item VARLAB=

Label for analysis variable. If not
             specifed, the analysis axis is labelled with the
             variable name.

=item CLASSLAB=

Label for class variable(s) used to label the axis.

=item VAXIS=

Axis statement for vertical axis.  If specified, some of the
             axis parameters below are ignored.

=item HAXIS=

Axis statement for horizontal axis  If specified, some of the
             axis parameters below are ignored.

=item YORDER=

Tick marks and range for the ordinate, in the
             form YORDER = low TO  high BY tick.

=item XORDER=

Tick marks and range for the horizontal axis, in the
form XORDER = low TO high BY tick.  With C<ORIENT=V>,
the horizontal axis pertains to the C<CLASS=> variable(s);
with C<ORIENT=H>, the horizontal axis pertains to the C<VAR=>
analysis variable.  

When there are very few (3 or less)
levels of the C<CLASS=> variable, SAS/GRAPH often has
problems dealing with the annotation information and
labels.  Setting C<XORDER=> (or YORDER=, with C<ORIENT=H>) to
include an extra value at both ends of the range usually
helps cure this problem.  For example, if there are only
two groups, with class values 1 and 2, set C<XORDER=0 >to
3 by 1.

=item ANNO=

The name of an (optional) additional
   ANNOTATE data set to be used in drawing the
   plot.  This requires some knowledge of the
contents of the ANNOTATE data set, which you can
see by specifying C<PRINT=ANNO >in a previous call.

=item PRINT=

What printed output?  You may specify any one or more of
            ANNO, OUTSIDE and STATS. [Default: C<PRINT=OUTSIDE>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set containing
statistics used in drawing the boxplot.  There
is one observation for each group.  The
variables are N, _MEAN_, _MEDIAN_, _Q1_, _Q3_, _IQR_,
LO_NOTCH, HI_NOTCH, LO_WHISK, HI_WHISK [Default: C<OUT=BOXSTAT>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=BOXPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]



=back 4

