=head1 Description

The BOXTID macro finds power transformations for some or all of the
predictors in a regression model using the Box-Tidwell method.  In
addition, it can produce plots showing the influence of individual
observations on the selection of powers. These are partial residual
plots for the constructed variables X * log X.

As a convenience, an output data set containing the optimally
transformed variables is also produced. 

=head1 Usage

The BOXTID macro takes 14 keyword arguments.  You must specify either
the C<RESP=> or C<YVAR=> parameter, and the names of all predictors (C<XVAR=>).
For example:

  %boxtid(data=angell, yvar=moralint,
       xvar=hetero mobility, id=city);


=head2 Parameters

Default values are shown after the parameter name.

=over 4

=item DATA=_last_

Name of input data set

=item RESP=

The name of the response variable

=item YVAR=

Response variable (synonym for C<RESP=>)

=item XVAR=

Names of the predictors in the model.  This must
be a simple list of variable names, i.e., lists
like C<X1-X10> are not allowed.

=item XTRANS=

Variables to be transformed: names or indices.
If C<XVAR=X1 X2 X3 X7 X9>, you may specify either
C<XTRANS=X3 X7 X9> or C<XTRANS=3 4 5> for the same effect.
If not specified, all variables in the C<XVAR=> list
are transformed.

=item PREFIX=t_

Prefix for names of transformed variables.  If the
X variables are X1 X2 X3, the output data set will
contain T_X1, T_X2, T_X3 when the C<PREFIX=T_>.

=item ID=

Name of an ID variable, used as a point label in plots.

=item OUT=boxtid

Name of output data set

=item ROUND=0.5

Round powers.  The estimated power for each predictor
is rounded to the nearest C<ROUND=> unit in constructing
the transformed variables.

=item MAXIT=15

Maximum number of iterations

=item CONVERGE=0.001

Convergence criterion.  The process stops when the
largest change in an estimated power is less than
the C<CONVERGE=> value, or when C<MAXIT> iterations would
be exceeded.

=item PPLOT=

Specifies printer plots, if any to be produced.
Either or both of the keywords TRANS and INFL.    

=item GPLOT=INFL

Specifies high-res influence plots.

=item QUIET=N

Y or N.  C<QUIET=Y> suppresses printout of the iteration
history.

=back 4

