=head1 Description

The BREWERPAL macro generates a set of SAS/Graph colors for one of the
color palettes developed by Cynthia Brewer.  These include color scales
for sequential (quantitative) variables, discrete (qualitative) variables,
and bipolar (diverging) variables, with varying numbers of levels.  The
intended use is for constructing sets of color values with SAS/Graph, such
as in SYMBOL and PATTERN statements.

See: http://www.personal.psu.edu/faculty/c/a/cab38/ColorBrewerBeta2.html
for an online application demonstrating these color scales.

The result is returned in an output data set with a COLOR variable (RGB
color code).  Optionally, the list of all colors may be saved to a macro
variable as a blank-separated list.

=head2 Method

The BREWERPAL macro is modeled on the RColorBrewer R package.  
See: http://cran.us.r-project.org/src/contrib/Descriptions/RColorBrewer.html

It requires that the data set colors.brewer has already been created (by the file 
brewer.sas).
You may have to modify the libname statement in the macro, or specify the C<LIB=>
parameter for something other than 'colors'.

As implemented here, it simply selects observations from the &lib..brewer data set.


=head1 Usage

The BREWERPAL macro is defined with keyword parameters.  Typically, the C<N=>
and C<PALETTE=> arguments are specified.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %brewerpal(n=7, palette=Accent);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item N=

Number of different colors included in the palette [Default: C<N=3>]

=item PALETTE=

Palette name.  Must be one of the values created in the palnames lists:

  Diverging:   BrBG PiYG PRGn PuOr RdBu RdGy RdYlBu RdYlGn Spectral
  Qualitative: Accent Dark2 Paired Pastel1 Pastel2 Set1 Set2 Set3;
  Sequential:  Blues BuGn BuPu GnBu Greens Greys Oranges OrRd
                  PuBu PuBuGn PuRd Purples RdPu Reds YlGn YlGnBu YlOrBr YlOrRd

             If C<PALETTE=> is not specified, all palettes are selected.

=item LIB=

Library name for the brewer data set  [Default: C<LIB=COLORS>]

=item CATEGORY=

Palette category: DIV, QUAL or SEQ.  If not specified, all palette
             categories are selected.

=item OUT=

Name of the output data set. Contains the variable COLOR, as well as
             the Red, Green, Blue (decimal) components of each color [Default: C<OUT=PALETTE>]

=item RESULT=

Name of output macro variable containing color list.  If specified,
             a macro variable of that name is created with a list of all distinct
          colors in the C<OUT=> data set.


=back 4

=head1 Examples

  *-- Typical usage, for a given palette;
  %brewerpal(n=6, palette=Blues, result=blues6);
  %put blues6 = &blues6;
  title 'Blues palette, n=6 colors';
  proc print;
  *-- Generate pattern statements with the blues6 list;
  %genpat(n=6, colors=&blues6);

  %brewerpal(n=9, palette=YlOrRd);
  title 'Yellow-Orange-Red palette, n=9 colors';
  proc print;

  *-- All n=4 palettes for diverging colors;
  %brewerpal(n=4, category=div);
  title 'Diverging palettes, n=4 colors';
  proc print;



=back 4

