=head1 Description

The CANPLOT macro constructs a canonical discriminant structure
plot. The plot shows class means on the two largest canonical
variables, confidence circles for those means, and variable vectors
showing the correlations of variables with the canonical variates.

=head2 Method

Discriminant scores and coefficients are extracted from PROC CANDISC
and plotted.

Other designs may be handled either by (a) coding factor combinations
'interactively', so, e.g., the combinations of A*B are represented by
a GROUP variable, or (b) by applying the method to adjusted response
vectors (residuals) with some other predictor (class or continuous)
partialled out.  The latter method is equivalent to analysis of
the residuals from an initial PROC GLM step, with the effects to be
controlled or adjusted for as predictors.

e.g., to examine Treatment, controlling for Block and Sex,

   proc glm data=..;
    model Y1-Y5 = block sex;
    output out=resids
       r=E1-E5;
  %canplot(data=resids, var=E1-E5, class=Treat, ... );


=head1 Usage

The CANPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
Values must be supplied for the C<CLASS=> and C<VAR=> parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %canplot(data=inputdataset, var=predictors, class=groupvariable...,);

The interpretation of the angles betweeen variable vectors
relies on the units for the horizontal and vertical axes being made
equal (so that 1 data unit measures the same length on both axes.
The axes should be equated either by using the GOPTIONS C<C<HSIZE=> VSIZE>=
options, or using the macro C<HAXIS=> and C<VAXIS=> parameters
and AXIS statements which specify the C<LENGTH=> value for both
axes. The current version now uses the EQUATE macro if the 
C<HAXIS=> and C<VAXIS=> arguments are not supplied.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of data set to analyze [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item CLASS=

Name of one class variable, defining the groups to be
             discriminated.  

=item VAR=

List of classification variables

=item ID=

Observation ID variable, used to label observations in the plot.

=item VARLAB=

How to label variables? _NAME_ or _LABEL_ [Default: C<VARLAB=_NAME_>]

=item DIM=

Number of canonical dimensions to be extracted. [Default: C<DIM=2>]

=item SCALE=

Scale factor for variable vectors in plot. The variable 
             vectors are multiplied by the C<SCALE=> value, which should
             be specified (perhaps by trial and error) to make the vectors and
             observations fill the same plot region. [Default: C<SCALE=4>]

=item CONF=

Confidence probability for canonical means, determining the ra [Default: C<C<CONF=>.99>]

=item OUT=

Output data set containing discrim scores [Default: C<OUT=_DSCORE_>]

=item OUTVAR=

Output data set containing coefficients [Default: C<OUTVAR=_COEF_>]

=item ANNO=

Output data set containing annotations [Default: C<ANNO=_DANNO_>]

=item ANNOADD=

Additional annotations to add to the plot.  Can include
             'MEAN' and/or 'GPLABEL' and/or the name(s) of additional
          input annotate data sets. [Default: C<ANNOADD=MEAN>]

=item PLOT=

YES (or NO to suppress plot) [Default: C<PLOT=YES>]

=item HAXIS=

The name of an optional AXIS statement for 
          the horizontal axis. The C<HAXIS=> and C<VAXIS=> arguments may be used
          to equate the axes in the plot so that the units are the same
          on the horizontal and vertical axes.  If neither C<HAXIS=> nor
          C<VAXIS=> are supplied, the EQUATE macro is called to generate
          axis statements.

=item VAXIS=

The name of an optional AXIS statement for 
             the  vertical axis.

=item INC=

X, Y axis tick increments, in data units [Default: C<INC=1 1>]

=item XEXTRA=

# of extra X axis tick marks on the left and right.  Use this to
             extend the axis range. [Default: C<XEXTRA=0 0>]

=item YEXTRA=

# of extra Y axis tick marks on the bottom and top. [Default: C<YEXTRA=0 0>]

=item LEGEND=

Name of a LEGEND statement to specify legend for groups.  Use
             C<LEGEND=NONE >to suppress the legend (perhaps with C<ANNOADD=GPLABEL>
          to plot group labels near the means).

=item HSYM=

Height of plot symbols [Default: C<HSYM=1.2>]

=item HID=

Height of ID labels [Default: C<HID=1.4>]

=item IDCOLOR=

Color of ID labels

=item HTEXT=

Height of variable and group labels [Default: C<HTEXT=1.5>]

=item CANX=

Horizontal axis of plot [Default: C<CANX=CAN1>]

=item CANY=

Vertical axis of plot [Default: C<CANY=CAN2>]

=item DIMLAB=

Dimension label prefix [Default: C<DIMLAB=C>anonical Dimension]

=item COLORS=

List of colors to be used for groups (levels of the C<CLASS=> variable).
             The values listed are recycled as needed for the number of groups.
            [Default: C<COLORS=RED GREEN BLUE BLACK PURPLE BROWN ORANGE YELLOW>]

=item SYMBOLS=

List of symbols to be used for the observations within the groups,
             recycled as needed.
             [Default: SYMBOLS=dot circle triangle square star - : $  =]

=item LINES=

List of line style numbers used for the confidence circles.
             [Default: C<LINES=20 20 20 20 20 20 20>]

=item NAME=

Name for graphic catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=CANPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]



=back 4

