=head1 Description

The CATPLOT macro is designed to plot observed and/or predicted
values for logit models fit by the CATMOD procedure.  The macro uses
the output data set produced with the C<OUT=> option on the RESPONSE
statement.  This data set normally contains both logit values
(C<_TYPE_='FUNCTION'>) and probability values (C<_TYPE_='PROB'>).  Either
set may be plotted, as specified by the C<TYPE=> parameter.

The horizontal variable may be character (C<XC=>) or numeric (C<X=>).
A separate curve is drawn for each value of the C<CLASS=> variable,
connecting predicted values, with optional standard error bars,
and separate plots are drawn for each value of the C<BYVAR=> variable.

=head1 Usage

The catplot macro is called with keyword parameters. Either the
C<X=> or the C<XC=> parameters are required. Use the C<CLASS=> parameter
to give multiple curves in each plot for the levels of the CLASS
variable. Use the C<BYVAR=> parameter to give multiple plots for the
levels of the BYVAR variable. The arguments may be listed within
parentheses in any order, separated by commas.  For example:

  proc catmod;
     direct husinc;
     response / out=logits;
     model labour = husinc children; 
  %catplot(data=logits, x=husinc, y=_pred_, class=labor, byvar=children);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the SAS dataset to be plotted, which must be
         an output data set from PROC CATMOD.  If C<DATA=> is not
         specified, the most recently created data set is used.

=item X=

Name of a numeric factor variable to be used as the horizontal
         variable in plots.  Use the C<XC=> parameter to specify a
         character variable.  You must specify either the C<X=> or C<XC=>
         variable.

=item XC=

Name of a character factor variable used as the horizontal
         variable in plots.

=item Y=

Name of the ordinate variable.  C<Y=_PRED_> plots the predicted
         value; C<Y=_OBS_> plots the observed value.  The default is
         C<Y=_OBS_>, but the predicted values are also drawn, connected
         by lines. [Default: C<Y=_OBS_>]

=item CLASS=

The name of a factor variable, used to define separate curves
         which are plotted for each level of this variable.

=item BYVAR=

Name of one or more factor variables to be used to define 
         multiple panels in plots.  

=item BYFMT=

Name of a SAS format used to format the value of BYVARs
         for display in one panel of the plot(s). [Default: BYFMT=$16.]

=item TYPE=

The type of observations to be plotted.  C<TYPE=FUNCTION> (the
         default) gives plots of the logit value; C<TYPE=PROB> gives
         plots of the probability value. [Default: C<TYPE=FUNCTION>]

=item Z=

Standard error multiple for confidence intervals around
         predicted values, e.g., C<Z=1.96> gives 95% CI. To suppress error
         bars, use C<Z=0.>  The default is C<Z=1>, giving 67% CI.

=item CLFMT=

Name of a SAS format used to format the value the C<CLASS=>
         variable for display in each panel of the plot(s).

=item CLSIDE=

Specifies whether the values of the C<CLASS=> variable should
         be labelled by annotation in the plot or by a legend.  If
         C<CLSIDE=LEFT> or C<CLSIDE=FIRST>, C<CLASS=> values are written at the
         left side of each curve.  If C<CLSIDE=RIGHT> or C<CLSIDE=LAST>,
         C<CLASS=> values are written at the right side of each curve.
         If C<CLSIDE=NONE>, or if a C<LEGEND=> legend is specified, the 
         C<CLASS=> values appear in the legend.  You should
         then define a LEGEND statment and use the C<LEGEND=> parameter.
         [Default: C<CLSIDE=LAST>]

=item XFMT=

Name of a SAS format used to format the values of the horizontal
         variable.

=item POSFMT=

Format to translate the value of the CLASS variable to a 
         SAS/GRAPH annotate position.  This will almost always be a
         user-specified format created with PROC FORMAT.

=item ANNO=

Name of an additional input annotate data set

=item SYMBOLS=

List of SAS/GRAPH symbols for the levels of the C<CLASS=> variable.  
         There should be as many symbols as there are distinct values of 
         the C<CLASS=> variable. [Default: C<SYMBOLS=CIRCLE> SQUARE TRIANGLE]

=item COLORS=

List of SAS/GRAPH colors for the levels of the C<CLASS=> variable.
         There should be as many colors as there are distinct values of 
         the C<CLASS=> variable. [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK> RED BLUE GREEN]

=item LINES=

List of SAS/GRAPH line styles for the levels of the C<CLASS=> 
         variable.  There should be as many lines as there are distinct
         values of the C<CLASS=> variable. [Default: C<LINES=1> 20 41 21 7 14 33 12]

=item VAXIS=

Axis statement for custom response axis, e.g., C<VAXIS=AXIS1.>
         [Default: C<VAXIS=AXIS1>]

=item HAXIS=

Axis statement for custom horizontal axis, e.g., C<HAXIS=AXIS2>
         [Default: C<HAXIS=AXIS2>]

=item LEGEND=

Legend statement for custom CLASS legend, e.g., C<LEGEND=LEGEND1>

=item PLOC=

For multiple plots (with a BYVAR), PLOC defines the X,Y position
         of the panel label, in graph percentage units. [Default: C<PLOC=5> 95]

=item PRINT=

Print summarized input data set? [Default: C<PRINT=NO>]

=item NAME=

Name of graphic catalog entry. [Default: C<NANME=CATPLOT>]


=back 4
