=head1 Description

The CCMAP macro produces a set of choropleth maps for one response
variable where the geographic units are partitioned into groups
by two conditioning variables.  Each region appears in all maps,
but is only shaded (in relation the the C<RESPONSE=> variable) in those
views defined by the ranges of the conditioning (C<GIVEN=>) variable.
This makes it possible to see how the geographic distribution of the
response changes with the conditioning variables.

See: Dan Carr's CCmaps page:  http://www.galaxy.gmu.edu/~dcarr/CCmaps/
for information on CCmaps.

=head1 Usage

The CCMAP macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<RESPONSE=>
(or C<VAR=>) variable is required, as are two C<GIVEN=> variables. The C<ID=>
variable must name the geographic region in the C<MAP=> and C<DATA=> data
sets.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %ccmap();

For useful results, you should also specify the C<MIDPOINTS=> values of the
C<RESPONSE=> variable and define a corresponding set of PATTERN statements.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set

=item MAP=

Name of the input map data set [Default: C<MAP=MYMAPS.USVISMAP>]

=item RESPONSE=

Response variable shown on maps

=item VAR=

Synonym for C<RESPONSE=>

=item ID=

The name of the map ID variable indicating geographic regions in the
             C<MAP=> and C<DATA=> data sets.

=item WEIGHT=

Region weight variable (e.g. population), used for calculating weighted
             means/medians for the levels of the conditioning variables.

=item GIVEN=

The names of 2 Conditioning variables, X, Y

=item SLICES=

Number of slices for X,Y [Default: C<SLICES=2 2>]

=item OVERLAP=

Allowed overlap between slices of the C<GIVEN=> variables, in percent. Ignored if
             the given variables are character. [Default: C<OVERLAP=0.10>]

=item LEVELS=

Number of levels for the C<VAR=> variable in the maps [Default: C<LEVELS=7>]

=item MIDPOINTS=

Midpoints for the C<VAR=> variable. You should use this to
             specify a common set of midpoints for the response variable
          in the maps, so they all use the same midpoints.  You can
          append PCT to a list of numeric midpoint values to have the
          macro calculate the corresponding percentiles of the C<VAR=>
          variable.  Specifying C<MIDPOINTS=> overrides the C<LEVELS=>
          parameter.

=item COUTLINE=

Outline color for the map regions. Specify COUTLINE=, (null) to suppress
             the region outlines. [Default: C<COUTLINE=GRAYCC>]

=item LEGEND=

NONE, or name of a LEGEND statement, e.g., C<LEGEND=LEGEND1.  I>f
             you do not specify LEGEND=, you will get a default PROC GMAP
          legend in each map, probably not what you want.

=item GMAPOPTIONS=

Other GMAP options

=item ANNO=

Name of an additional input annotate dataset. If supplied, this is
             used in all of the maps.

=item HSTRIP=

Height (in %) for marginal label strip used to identify the
             values of the C<GIVEN=> variables. [Default: C<HSTRIP=6>]

=item STRIPBG=

Strip background color [Default: C<STRIPBG=YELLOW>]

=item STRIPFG=

Strip foreground color [Default: C<STRIPFG=BLACK>]

=item GTEMP=

Temporary graphics catalog used to generate the individual
             maps. [Default: C<GTEMP=GTEMP>]

=item KILL=

Delete gtemp when done? [Default: C<KILL=Y>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=CCMAP>]



=back 4

=head2 Dependencies

CCMAP requires the following macros:

  gdispla.sas     Device-independent DISPLAY/NODISPLAY control
  panels.sas      Display a set of plots in rectangular panels
  slice.sas       Divide a variable into slices


=head1 Examples

 %include macros(ccmap);
 %include data(guerry);

 *-- Define a palette of 7 colors from Red to Blue thru Yellow;
 %brewerpal(n=7, palette=RdYlBu, out=palette);
 %genpat(data=palette, n=nobs, colors=color);

 legend1
    mode=share
    position=(bottom inside left)
    across=4
    label=(position=middle j=c 'Pop/Crime' j=c '(00s)')
    shape=bar(3,1); 

 %ccmap(data=guerry, map=mymaps.gfrance(where=(density<5)),
    var=Crime_pers, given=Literacy Wealth,
    id=dept, weight=Pop1831,
    midpoints = 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 PCT,
    legend=legend1,
    slices=2 2, overlap=0.10);



