=head1 Description

The COLORRAMP macro constructs a set of RGB colors ranging from a
starting color to an ending color, optionally going through a middle
color.  The result appears as the C<COLORVAR=> variable in an C<OUT=>
output data set, and optionally as a macro variable named by the
C<RESULT=> parameter.

The ends and middle of the color scale can be specified either as
6-character RRGGBB hex strings, as 8-character HLS strings (Hhhllss),
or as the predefined SAS/Graph color names, e.g., 'very light purple'.
Except for RRGGBB, this requires the SAS-supplied COLORMAC macro,
available with SAS V8+.

=head2 Method

C<START=>, C<END=> and C<MIDDLE=> are each converted to decimal red, green,
blue components, and linear interpolation is performed on each,
from C<START=> to C<END=>, possibly through C<MIDDLE=>.  This means that
if you prefer to use HLS colors, the result will not be exactly
linear in HLS space, though the difference will probably be small
unless very few colors are used.

=head1 Usage

The COLORRAMP macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<N=>
parameter is required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %colorramp(n=10);
  %colorramp(start=red,mid=very light gray,end=0000FF, n=8, display=Y);
  %colorramp(start=red, end=blue, n=6, result=mycolors);
  %put Colors: &mycolors;

  %colorramp(start=H00080FF, end=H07880FF, n=10, out=mycolors);
  %genpat(n=nobs, data=mycolors);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item N=

Number of colors to be created

=item START=

Starting color.  This should be either a 6-digit hex string
(rrggbb), or an 8-char HLS string (Hhhhllss),
or the name of a SAS/Graph color. [Default: C<START=FF0000>]

=item MID=

Middle color.  If specified, the resulting colors go from
   the C<START=> color to the C<MIDDLE=> color, then to the C<END=>
color.  When C<N=> is an even number, you can get a symmetric
set of colors by specifying C<DUPMID=1>;  otherwise, there is
one fewer color in the set from C<START=> to C<MID=> than from
C<MID=> to C<END=>.

=item END=

Ending color [Default: C<END=0000FF>]

=item DUPMID=

0 or 1: Duplicate middle color when N=even? [Default: C<DUPMID=0>]

=item COLORVAR=

Name of color the variable in the C<OUT=> data set.
 This is a SAS/Graph RGB color of the form CXrrggbb. 
[Default: C<COLORVAR=COLOR>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=COLORS>]

=item DISPLAY=

Show a display of the colors? [Default: C<DISPLAY=N>]

=item RESULT=

Name of output macro variable containing color list.  If specified,
a macro variable of that name is created with a list of all distinct
colors in the C<OUT=> data set.



=back 4

