=head1 Description

The COMBOS macro generates symbolic combinations of N things taken K
at a time.  The combinations may be specified to include any given
subset.  The resulting combinations are returned as an output data set,
and in global macro variables.

=head2 Method

The macro uses the simple trick of using PROC SUMMARY to give all
possible combinations, using the THINGS as class variables.

=head1 Usage

The THINGS and SIZE parameters are positional, and required.  The rest are
optional keyword parameters, which may be specified in any order.


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item THINGS

The N things to combine: a list of blank-separated
words, or a variable range such as X1-X10.  These
things become variables in the output data set.
They need not exist before the macro is called,
but they must be valid SAS names.  The length of
the longest combination (including SEP characters)
must not exceed 200.

=item SIZE

Size (K) of each combination, a numeric value.

=item INCLUDE=

Items which must be included.  If a number, then that
number of the first items in THINGS is included in
each combination.   

=item OUT=out

Name of the output data set containing the combinations,
one observation for each.   

=item SEP

Separator string used within each combination.  With
                    C<THINGS=A B C D>, the default SEP gives combinations
                    like C<'A B C', 'A B D'>, etc. [Default: C<SEP=%str( )>]

=item JOIN=

Separator to join all combinations in the C<RESULT=>
macro variable.  With C<THINGS=A B C D>, the default JOIN
gives C<RESULT='A B C, A B D'>. [Default: C<JOIN=%str(, )>]

=item SORT=Y

Specifies whether the combinations are sorted in the
output data set.

=item PRINT=

Whether to print the C<OUT=> data set. [Default: PRINT=Y]

=item RESULT=

Name of a global macro result variable containing all
combinations.  You may not use C<RESULT=RESULT> (or any
other local macro variable). [Default: C<RESULT=combos>]

=item NCOMB=

Name of macro result variable with the number of
combinations generated.  If C<INCLUDE=> (empty), or
C<INCLUDE=0>, this is C(N,K).   [Default: C<NCOMB=nc>]             


=back 4

=head1 Examples

   %combos(a b c d e, 2, include=2);

produces one combination of size 2 which includes A and B:

                OBS    A    B    C    D    E    COMBO    SIZE

                 1     1    1    .    .    .     A B       2

   %combos(a b c d, 3, sep=-);

produces all 4 combinations of 4 things, 3 at a time:

                   OBS    A    B    C    D    COMBO    SIZE

                    1     1    1    1    .    A-B-C      3
                    2     1    1    .    1    A-B-D      3
                    3     1    .    1    1    A-C-D      3
                    4     .    1    1    1    B-C-D      3



