=head1 Description

The COMBINE macro combines two or more variables (character or
numeric) into a single one.  This is useful for situations where you
need two or more CLASS variables, but some procedure or macro
stupidly only handles one.  Also handy for plots of the form

  plot y * x = Group Sex

where there are two or more curve variables.

=head1 Usage

The COMBINE macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=>
parameter is required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %combine(var=group gender, result=gp_sex);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of two or more variables to be combined.  *required*

=item RESULT=

The name of the result variable. [Default: C<RESULT=_ID_>]

=item WHERE=

Otional WHERE clause to subset the observations written to the
             C<OUT=> data set.

=item SEP=

Separator character(s), inserted between adjacent values
             [Default: SEP=:]

=item ABBREV=

If specified, each character variable in C<VAR=> is truncated to this length
             in RESULT.  To specify different truncation lengths, use a list of numbers,
             whose order corresponds to the C<VAR=> variables, e.g., 
C<ABBREV=2 2 4>.

=item LENGTH=

If specified, the C<RESULT=> variable is truncated to this total length,
             regardless of the C<ABBREV=> setting.

=item USEFMT=

If postive, numeric variables which have formats stored in the data set
             have their formatted values combined.  [Default: C<USEFMT=0>]

=item IGNMISS=

Ignore missing values?

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set.  The default (OUT=&data) means that
             the input data set is replaced. [Default: OUT=&data]


=back 4

=head1 Bugs

The internally calculated length for the result variable is incorrect for numeric
variables.

Should provide a way to use a formatted value of a character variable.



