=head1 Description

The COPLOT macro plots a collection of XY plots, for subsets of a
data set conditioned by a C<GIVEN=> variable.  These help to show
how the relation between X and Y varies with the given variable.

=head1 Usage

The COPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<X=>, C<Y=>,
and C<GIVEN=>  parameters are required.  Either or both of the C<ROWS=>
and C<COLS=> parameters may be used to arrange the collection of
plots in a rectangular grid.  

The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %coplot(x=weight, y=mpg, given=Origin);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the data set to be plotted [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item X=

Horizontal variable in each plot

=item Y=

Vertical variable in each plot

=item GIVEN=

The name of the slicing variable.  Must be a numeric
variable.

=item GROUP=

Grouping variable (determines the plot symbol/color)

=item SLICES=

Number of slices of the C<GIVEN=> variable [Default: C<SLICES=4>]

=item OVERLAP=

Allowed overlap between slices [Default: C<OVERLAP=0.25>]

=item ROWS=

Number of rows in the panel plot.  If neither C<ROWS=> nor
C<COLS=> are specified, both values are calculated from the
C<SLICES=> value to give a square-ish display.  If only one
of C<ROWS=> or C<COLS=> is specified, the other value is calculated.

=item COLS=

Number of columns in the panel plot.

=item INTERP=

Plot interpolation method in each panel [Default: C<INTERP=NONE>]

=item HSYM=

Height of plot symbols and value labels in the plots.

=item GPANEL=

Height of the given panel, in % of the plot size. 
If C<GPANEL=0>, the given panel is suppressed. [Default: C<GPANEL=0>]

=item SYMBOLS=

List of symbols to use for for groups defined by the C<GROUP=>
variable. [Default: SYMBOLS=%STR(CIRCLE SQUARE + : $ = X _ Y)]

=item COLORS=

List of colors to use for for groups.
[Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED GREEN BLUE BROWN YELLOW ORANGE PURPLE>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the output graphics catalog. [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]

=back 4

