=head1 Description

The CORRGRAM macro produces a schematic display of a correlation matrix,
called a correlogram.  In this display, variables are permuted so that
``similar'' variables are positioned adjacently, and cells of a
matrix are shaded or filled to show the correlation value.

=head1 Usage

The CORRGRAM macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %corrgram(data=baseball, var=_numeric_, fill=C E C);

The input dataset may contain raw data (no missing values, yet),
or a correlation matrix (type='CORR') produced by PROC CORR or
some other SAS procedure.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of input data set.  [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of variables whose correlations are to be displayed.
You may use an explicit, blank separated list of variables
(the case of variable names will be preserved), or any of
the SAS abbreviations, such as C<X1-X15>, C<height--strength>,
or C<_NUMERIC_> (variable labels will apprear in upper case).

=item TYPE=

Type of input data: DATA or CORR.  If not specified, the
program tries to guess, by examining the type attribute
of the input data set.

=item FILL=

How to fill the cells in the lower triangle, diagonal 
and the upper triangle.  Should be three characters, chosen from
C<S=> shade (with color proportional to the correlation), C<E=> empty, 
C<N=> numeric value, C<C=> circle, or C<B=> bar [Default: C<FILL=S E S>]

=item ORDERBY=

PCs used to order the variables, either one or two integers
(eigenvector numbers) or empty (C<ORDERBY=>).
[Default: C<ORDERBY=1 2>]

=item OPTIONS=

One or more options: RINV displays R^{-1} rather than R.
TRANS transposes the data set, and calculates correlations
among observations, rather than variables.

=item PARTIAL=

List of one or more variables to be partialed out.

=item COLORS=

Colors for positive and negative values [Default: C<COLORS=BLUE RED>]

=item HLABEL=

Height of variable labels

=item ALABEL=

Angles for variable labels on the vertical and horizontal
axes.

=item CMIN=

Minimum absolute value for correlation to be shaded.

=item TITLE=

Optional plot title, or C<NONE>, for no title.  Under V7+, the macro
uses the C<TITLE1> unless C<TITLE=NONE> has been specified.

=back 4

