=head1 Description

The CORRESP macro carries out simple correspondence analysis of a
two-way contingency table, and various extensions (stacked analysis,
MCA) for a multiway table, as in the CORRESP procedure.  It also
produces labeled plots of the category points in either 2 or 3
dimensions, with a variety of graphic options, and the facility to
equate the axes automatically. 

The macro takes input in one of two forms:

=over 4

=item (a)
 
A two-way contingency table, where the columns are separate variables
and the rows are separate observations (identified by a row ID variable.
For this form, specify:

     ID=ROWVAR, VAR=C1 C2 C3 C4 C5

=item (b)
 
A contingency table in frequency form (e.g., the output from PROC FREQ),
or raw data, where there is one variable for each factor.  In frequency
form, there will be one observation for each cell.
For this form, specify:

     TABLES=A B C

Include the C<WEIGHT=> parameter when the observations are in frequency
form.

=head1 Usage

The CORRESP macro is called with keyword parameters.  Either the
C<VAR=> parameter or the C<TABLES=> parameter (but not both) must be
specified, but other parameters or options may be needed to carry
out the analysis you want.  The arguments may be listed within
parentheses in any order, separated by commas.  For example:

  %corresp(var=response, id=sex year);

The plot may be re-drawn or customized using the output C<OUT=>
data set of coordinates and the C<ANNO=> Annotate data set.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input data set to be analyzed.
[Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Specifies the names of the column variables for simple
CA, when the data are in contingency table form.
Not used for MCA.

=item ID=

Specifies the name(s) of the row variable(s) for simple
CA.  Not used for MCA.

=item TABLES=

Specifies the names of the factor variables used to create
the rows and columns of the contingency table.  For a simple
CA or stacked analysis, use a ',' or '/' to separate the
the row and column variables.

=item WEIGHT=

Specifies the name of the frequency (C<WEIGHT>) variable when
the data set is in frequency form.  If C<WEIGHT=> is omitted,
the observations in the input data set are not weighted.

=item SUP=

Specifies the name(s) of any variables treated as supplementary.
The categories of these variables are included in the output,
but not otherwise used in the computations.  
These must be included among the variables in the C<VAR=> or
C<TABLES=> option.  

=item DIM=

Specifies the number of dimensions of the CA/MCA solution.
Only two dimensions are plotted by the C<PPLOT> option,
however.

=item OPTIONS=

Specifies options for PROC CORRESP.  Include C<MCA> for an
MCA analysis, C<CROSS=ROW|COL|BOTH> for stacked analysis of
multiway tables, C<PROFILE=BOTH|ROW|COLUMN> for various
coordinate scalings, etc.  [Default: C<OPTIONS=SHORT>]

=item OUT=

Specifies the name of the output data set of coordinates.
[Default: C<OUT=COORD>]

=item ANNO=

Specifies the name of the annotate data set of labels
produced by the macro.  [Default: C<ANNO=LABEL>]

=item PPLOT=

Produce printer plot? [Default: C<PPLOT=NO>]

=item GPLOT=

Produce graphics plot? [Default: C<GPLOT=YES>]

=item PLOTREQ=

The dimensions to be plotted [Default: C<PLOTREQ=DIM2*DIM1>
 when C<DIM=2>, C<PLOTREQ=DIM2*DIM1=DIM3> when C<DIM=3>]

=item HTEXT=

Height for row/col labels.  If not specified, the global
HTEXT goption is used.  Otherwise, specify one or two numbers
to be used as the height for row and column labels.
The C<HTEXT=> option overrides the separate C<ROWHT=> and C<COLHT=>
parameters (maintained for backward compatibility).

=item ROWHT=

Height for row labels

=item COLHT=

Height for col labels

=item COLORS=

Colors for row and column points, labels, and interpolations.
[Default: C<COLORS=BLUE RED>]

=item POS=

Positions for row/col labels relative to the points.
[Default: C<POS=5 5>]

=item SYMBOLS=

Symbols for row and column points [Default: C<SYMBOLS=NONE NONE>]

=item INTERP=

Interpolation options for row/column points. In addition to the
standard interpolation options provided by the SYMBOL statement,
the CORRESP macro also understands the option VEC to mean
a vector from the origin to the row or column point. 
[Default: C<INTERP=NONE NONE>, C<INTERP=VEC> for MCA]

=item HAXIS=

AXIS statement for horizontal axis.  If both C<HAXIS=> and
C<VAXIS=> are omitted, the program calls the EQUATE macro to
define suitable axis statements.  This creates the axis
statements AXIS98 and AXIS99, whether or not a graph
is produced.

=item VAXIS=

AXIS statement for vertical axis- use to equate axes

=item VTOH=

The vertical to horizontal aspect ratio (height of one
character divided by the width of one character) of the
printer device, used to equate axes for a printer plot,
when C<PPLOT=YES>. [Default: C<VTOH=2>]

=item INC=

X, Y axis tick increments (for the EQUATE macro).  Ignored
if C<HAXIS=> and C<VAXIS=> are specified. [Default: C<INC=0.1 0.1>]

=item XEXTRA=

The number of extra X axis tick marks at left and right.  Use to
allow extra space for labels. [Default: C<XEXTRA=0 0>]

=item YEXTRA=

The number of extra Y axis tick marks [Default: C<YEXTRA=0 0>]

=item M0=

Length of origin marker, in data units. [Default: C<M0=0.05>]

=item DIMLAB=

Prefix for dimension labels [Default: C<DIMLAB=Dimension> when C<DIM=2>,
otherwise, <DIMLAB=Dim>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graphics catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=corresp>]        

=back 4

=head1 Dependencies

The CORRESP macro calls several other macros not included here.
It is assumed these are stored in an autocall library.  If not,
you'll have to %include them in your SAS session or batch program.

LABEL macro - label points 
EQUATE macro - equate axes

These are all available by ftp://hotspur.psych.yorku.ca/pub/sas
(though in different subdirectories).


