
=head1 Description

The DATACHK macro performs basic data screening/checking on numeric variables
in a dataset, and is designed to give a compact overview of many variables.
The output is a small subset of that produced by
the univariate procedure.  For a each variable, a few statistics
and the lowest/highest observations are shown in a format like:

 Variable             Stat    Value       Extremes Id


 ATBAT                N            322          16 Tony Armas
                      Miss           0          19 Cliff Johnson
 Times at Bat         Mean    380.9286          19 Terry Kennedy
                      Std      153.405          20 Mike Schmidt
                      Skew    -0.07806
                                                663 Joe Carter
                                                677 Don Mattingly
                                                680 Kirby Puckett
                                                687 T Fernandez
                    --------------------------------------------


In addition, a schematic plot (boxplot) is shown for the standard
scores for all variables when the C<SPLOT=Y> option is given (assuming
the SPLOT macro is available.)

If a C<CLASS=> variable is specified, this output is produced for each
value of the C<CLASS=> variable.

The macro also prints a table of standardized (Z) scores, for all
observations which have at least C<NOUT> z-scores greater than C<ZOUT>
in absolute value.

=head1 Usage

The DATACHK macro takes 10 keyword arguments.  The C<VAR=> variable list
is required.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=_last_

Name of input data set

=item VAR=

Variable(s) to be screened.  You may use any of the
shorthands for variable lists, e.g., C<X1-X20>,
C<STATA--STATZ>, C<_NUMERIC_>.

=item CLASS=

Class/grouping variable

=item ID=

Name of id variable, used to label observations
in the output.

=item OUT=_hilo_

Name of the output dataset, containing the
highest and lowest observations on each variable.

=item LS=80

Output linesize, mainly used for the boxplots
produced by the SPLOT option.

=item LOHI=4

Number of low/high obs printed [Not yet]

=item ZOUT=2

Z-score for treating an obs as unusual

=item NOUT=2

Number of |z|>&ZOUT to print an observation

=item SPLOT=yes

Print boxplots of std scores?


=back 4

