=head1 Description

The DISTPLOT macro constructs plots of a discrete distribution
designed to diagnose whether the data follows one of the standard
distributions: the Poisson, Binomial, Negative Binomial, Geometric,
or Log Series, specified by the C<DIST=> parameter.  The usual
(C<PLOT=DIST>) plot is constructed so that the points lie along a
straight line when the data follows that distribution.  An influence
plot (C<PLOT=INFL>) shows the influence of each observation on the
choice of the distribution parameter(s).

=head1 Usage

The DISTPLOT macro is called with keyword parameters.
You must specify the distribution to be fit (C<DIST=>). and the
C<COUNT=> and C<FREQ=> variables.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %distplot(data=queues, count=women, freq=queues, dist=binomial,
      parm=0.435);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item COUNT=

Basic count variable

=item FREQ=

Number of occurrences of count

=item LABEL=

Horizontal (count) label

=item DIST=

Name of distribution, one of C<POISSON>, C<BINOMIAL>, 
C<GEOMETRIC>, or C<LOGSERIES>, 

=item PARM=

Trial value of the distribution parameter(s) to level the 
plot.  For the Binomial distribution, PARM=p, the binomial
probability of success; for the Poisson, PARM=lambda,
the Poisson mean

=item Z=

Multiplier for error bars in the C<PLOT=DIST >plot.
[Default: C<Z=1.96>]

=item PLOT=

What to plot: DIST and/or INFL [Default: C<PLOT=DIST>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text labels in the plots [Default: C<HTEXT=1.4>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=DISTPLOT>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graphics catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=DISTPLT>]

=back 4
