=head1 Description

The DOTPLOT macro produces grouped and ungrouped dot charts, with options
for sorting and error bars.

=head1 Usage

The DOTPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters. The C<XVAR=> and
C<YVAR=> parameters must be supplied.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %dotplot(data=auto, xvar=mpg, yvar=model, group=origin);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item XVAR=

Horizontal variable (response)

=item YVAR=

Vertical variable (observation label) for
                   the dot chart.  This should specify a character
                   variable.  At most 16 characters of the value
                   are used for the label.

=item YSORTBY=

How to sort observations.The default,
                   YSORTBY=&XVAR, indicates that observations are
                   sorted in ascending order of the response
                   variable.  [Default: YSORTBY=&XVAR]

=item GROUP=

Vertical grouping variable

=item CLASS=

Synonym for C<GROUP=>

=item WHERE=

WHERE clause to subset the data

=item BY=

BY variable (not completely implemented)

=item GPFMT=

Format for printing group variable
               value (include the '.' at the end)

=item CONNECT=

Specifies how to draw horizontal lines for
        each observation.  Valid values are ZERO, DOT, AXIS, or
          NONE.  The default, C<CONNECT=DOT>, draws
         a dotted line from the Y axis to the point.
         C<CONNECT=ZERO >draws a line from an X value of 0
         to the point.  C<CONNECT=AXIS >draws a line from the
         Y axis to the plot frame at the maximum X value.
         C<CONNECT=NONE >does not draw a line for the observation.
           [Default: C<CONNECT=DOT>]

=item SYMBOL=

Symbol(s) for observation [Default: C<SYMBOL=DOT CIRCLE SQUARE>]

=item SYMHT=

Height of observation symbols. [Default: C<SYMHT=1.5>]

=item COLOR=

Symbol colors [Default: C<COLOR=BLUE>]

=item DLINE=

Style of horizontal lines [Default: C<DLINE=34>]

=item DCOLOR=

Color of horizontal lines [Default: C<DCOLOR=BLACK>]

=item ERRBAR=

Name of an input variable giving length of error bar
             for each observation, or names of two variables giving
          lower/upper values.

=item VAXIS=

Vertical axis stmt (overrides internal choices and
             other parameters below).

=item HAXIS=

Horizontal axis stmt (overrides internal choices and
             other parameters below.)

=item YLABEL=

Label for y variable.  If not specified,
                   the vertical axis is labelled with the name of
                   the C<YVAR=> variable [Default: YLABEL=&YVAR]

=item YLENGTH=

Length of vertical axis 

=item XORDER=

Plotting range of response. Specify
             XORDER in the form XORDER = low TO high BY step.

=item XREF=

Specifies the horizontal values at which
                   reference lines are drawn for the response
                   variable.  If not specified, no reference lines
                   are drawn.

=item XLOGBASE=

Use to plot the response on log scale, e.g.,
              C<XLOGBASE=10.>

=item XLOGSTYL=

Style for log scale [Default: C<XLOGSTYL=EXPAND>]

=item NAME=

DOTPLOT


=back 4

=head2 Usage notes

DOTPLOT plots each observation in a row of the graphics output
area.  Therefore the C<VPOS=> graphics option should specify a
sufficient number of vertical character cells.  The value for C<VPOS=>
should be

   VPOS >= number of observations + number of groups + 8



