=head1 Description

Given a character or discrete numerical variable, the DUMMY macro creates
dummy (0/1) variables to represent the levels of the original variable
in a regression model.  If the original variable has c levels, (c-1)
new variables are produced (or c variables, if C<FULLRANK=0>)

=head1 Usage

The DUMMY macro takes the following named parameters.  The arguments
may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated by commas.
For example:

  %dummy(var=sex group,prefix=);


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input dataset.  If not specified, the most
 recently created dataset is used.

=item OUT=

The name of the output dataset.  If not specified, the new
variables are appended to the input dataset.

=item VAR=

The name(s) of the input variable(s) to be dummy coded.  Must be
specified.  The variable(s) can be character or numeric.

=item PREFIX=

Prefix(s) used to create the names of dummy variables.  The
default is 'D_'.  

=item NAME=

If C<NAME=VAL>, the dummy variables are named by appending the
value of the C<VAR=> variable to the prefix.  Otherwise, the
dummy variables are named by appending numbers, 1, 2, ...
to the prefix.  The resulting name must be 8 characters or
less.

=item BASE=

Indicates the level of the baseline category, which is given
values of 0 on all the dummy variables.  C<BASE=_FIRST_ >
specifies that the lowest value of the C<VAR=> variable is the
baseline group; C<BASE=_LAST_ >specifies the highest value of
the variable.  Otherwise, you can specify BASE=value to
make a different value the baseline group.

=item FULLRANK=

0/1, where 1 indicates that the indicator for the BASE category
          is eliminated.  


=back 4

=head2 Example

With the input data set,

 data test;
   input y group $ @@;
  cards;
  10  A  12  A   13  A   18  B  19  B  16  C  21  C  19  C  
  ;

The macro statement:

   %dummy ( data = test, var = group) ;

produces two new variables, D_A and D_B.  Group C is the baseline
category (corresponding to C<BASE=_LAST_>)

     OBS     Y    GROUP    D_A    D_B
        1     10      A       1      0
        2     12      A       1      0
        3     13      A       1      0
        4     18      B       0      1
        5     19      B       0      1
        6     16      C       0      0
        7     21      C       0      0
        8     19      C       0      0

