=head1 Description

The ELLIPSES macro plots a bivariate scatterplot with a bivariate
data ellipse for one or more groups.

=head1 Usage

The ELLIPSES macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<X=> and C<Y=> 
variables are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %ellipses(data=auto, x=price, y=weight);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item X=

Name of the X variable

=item Y=

Name of the Y variable

=item Z=

Name of a Z variable (for G3D)

=item VAR=

Two (or three) variable names x y (z), separated by spaces.  
             Instead of specifying C<X=> and C<Y=> separately, you can specify
          the names of the variables with the C<VAR=> parameter.

=item WHERE=

WHERE clause to select observations

=item WEIGHT=

Numeric weight for observations

=item GROUP=

Name of a Group variable (optional). If a C<GROUP=> variable is
             specified, one ellipse is produced for each value of this
             variable in the data set.  If no C<GROUP=> variable is specified, 
             a single ellipse is drawn for the entire sample.  
             The C<GROUP=> variable may be character or numeric.

=item CLASS=

Synonym for C<GROUP=>

=item GPFMT=

Name of a Format for group labels.

=item PVALUE=

Confidence coefficient (1-alpha). This is the proportion of 
             data from a bivariate normal distribution contained within
             the ellipse.  Several values may be specified in a list 
             (e.g., C<C<PVALUE=>.5 >.9), in which case one ellipse is generated
             for each value. [Default: C<PVALUE=0.68>]

=item LINE=

Line style(s) for ellipse [Default: C<LINE=5>]

=item WIDTH=

Line width(s) for ellipse [Default: C<WIDTH=1>]

=item ANNOADD=

Additional annotations added to the plot. [Default: C<ANNOADD=MEAN GPLABEL>]

=item INANNO=

Additional (input) annotations data set

=item STD=

Error bar metric: STD or STDERR. C<STD=STDERR >gives error
             bars equal to each mean +- one standard error for both
             variables.  C<STD=STD >gives error bars whose
             length is one standard deviation for both variables.
             [Default: C<STD=STDERR>]

=item POINTS=

Number of points on each ellipse [Default: C<POINTS=40>]

=item ALL=

Include an ellipse for total sample? Specifies whether the 
             ellipse for the total sample should be drawn in addition to 
          those for each group.  If there is no C<GROUP=> variable,
             C<ALL=YES >just draws the ellipse twice. [Default: C<ALL=NO>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output Annotate data set used to draw the
             ellipses, error bars and group labels. [Default: C<OUT=ELLIPSES>]

=item PLOT=

Plot the results? If C<PLOT=YES>, the macro plots the data together
             with the generated ellipses.  Otherwise, only the output 
          Annotate data set is generated.[Default: C<PLOT=YES>]

=item HAXIS=

Name of an AXIS statement for the horizontal axis.  By default,
             the plot range of the C<X=> variable is defined by the data, so
             the ellipses may be clipped and generate warnings in the PROC
             GPLOT step.  To avoid this, define an AXIS statement that
             defines a suitable range and specify that with C<C<HAXIS=>.>

=item VAXIS=

Name of an AXIS statement for the vertical axis.  See description
             for C<C<HAXIS=>.>

=item I=

SYMBOL statement interpolate option. Use C<I=RL >to include the
             regression line, C<I=RQ >to draw a quadratic, etc. [Default: C<I=NONE>]

=item INTERP=

(synonym for C<I=>)

=item COLORS=

List of colors for each of the groups.  If there are  g  groups,
             specify  g  colors if C<ALL=NO>, and g +  1  colors if C<ALL=YES.>
             The colors specified are recycled as needed.
             [Default: C<COLORS=RED BLUE GREEN BLACK PURPLE BROWN ORANGE YELLOW >]

=item SYMBOLS=

List of symbols, separated by spaces, used for plotting points in
             each of the groups. Recycled as needed.
          [Default: C<SYMBOLS=DOT SQUARE CIRCLE >+ STAR -     PLUS   :      $     =]

=item HSYM=

Height of plot symbols [Default: C<HSYM=1.2>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text in the plot [Default: C<HTEXT=1.5>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=ELLIPSES>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head1 Examples

 %include data(auto) ;
 %contour(data=auto,
          x=price, y=weight, group=origin,
          pvalue=.5);


