=head1 Description

The EQS2RAM macro reads a data set containing a series of lines that
would be used as input LINEQS (and STD, COV) statements to PROC CALIS.
From these, it extracts the information about manifest and latent
variables and the paths among them.  It produces a RAM-list output
data set, suitable for use to produce a path diagram with RAM2DOT.  

The parsing is slightly clever, but not very smart.  In particular,
it assumes that each linear equation, and each STD and COV 
specification appear on a separate input line.  In STD and
COV statements, list notation, e.g., E1-E7 = EPS: may be used.

=head1 Usage

The EQS2RAM macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=>
parameter is required.  
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %eqs2ram(data=lines,
     var=Y1 Y2 Y3 X1 X2 X3 X4 X5 F1 F2 F3,
     out=bagozzi);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Input data set containing LINEQS/STD/COV statements

=item TEXT=

Name of the text variable to be parsed [Default: C<TEXT=LINE>]

=item VAR=

List of all variables (manifest, latent)

=item VERBOSE=

>0 writes debugging information to the SAS log

=item OUT=

Name of output data set [Default: C<OUT=RAM>]


=back 4

=head1 Example

The example below reads the LINEQS model for the data from Bagozzi (1980),    
studied by Dillon & Goldstein (1984) into a data set, LINES, with a
single text variable, LINE.

  data lines;
        input line $1-80;
  cards4;
     LINEQS
        Y1 =           z1 F3 + z2 X5 + e1,
        Y2 =    F1                   + e2,
        Y3 = z3 F1                   + e3,
        X1 =         F2              + e4,
        X2 =      z4 F2              + e5,
        X3 =              F3         + e6,
        X4 =           z5 F3         + e7,
        F1 =      z7 F2 + z6 Y1 + d1;
     STD
        e1-e7 = eps: ,
        X5    = e8 ,
        d1    = d1 ,
        F2-F3 = d2 d3 ;
     COV
        X5 F2 F3 = d4 d5 d6 ;

This can be translated to RAM-list form, with variables  HEADS, TO, FROM,
_TO_, and _FROM_ by EQS2RAM: 

  %eqs2ram(data=lines,
     var=Y1 Y2 Y3 X1 X2 X3 X4 X5 F1 F2 F3,
     out=bagozzi);



