=head1 Description

The EQUATE macro creates AXIS statements for a GPLOT with equated
axes, and optionally produces a plot using point labels (supplied
in an input annotate data set).  It is a modified version of the
same macro appearing in the SAS Sample Library.

It creates an AXIS statement for the vertical variable Y and
an AXIS statement for horizontal variable X such that an inch
on the vertical axis represents the same data range as an inch on
the horizontal axis.  Equated axes are necessary whenever
distances between points, or angles between vectors from the origin
are to be interpreted.

=head1 Usage

The EQUATE macro takes 15 keyword arguments.  The C<X=> and C<Y=>
parameters are required.  

You may wish to reset the defaults below to be more
suited to your devices.  As well, you should
use C<GOPTIONS HSIZE=> VSIZE=;> to
allow the maximum plot size if you  specify the C<XMAX=> and
C<YMAX=> parameters as null values.

As an additional convenience (particularly for use within other
macros) EQUATE will calculate reasonable tick mark increments
from the data, to give about 6 tick marks on an axis, if the
C<XINC=> or C<YINC=> parameters are specified as null values.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item ANNO=

Name of an Annotate data set (used only if C<PLOT=YES>).
[Default: ANNO=&DATA]

=item X=

Name of the X variable [Default: C<X=X>]

=item Y=

Name of the Y variable [Default: C<Y=Y>]

=item XMAX=

Maximum X axis length (inches).  If C<XMAX=> (a null value)
the macro queries the device driver (using the DSGI)
to determine the maximum axis length. [Default: C<XMAX=6.5>]

=item YMAX=

Maximum Y axis length (inches).  If C<YMAX=> (a null value)
the macro queries the device driver (using the DSGI)
to determine the maximum axis length. [Default: C<YMAX=8.5>]

=item XINC=

X axis tick increment.  If C<XINC=> (a null value),
the macro calculates an increment from the data
which is 1, 2, 2.5, 4, or 5 times a power of 10
so that about 6 tick marks will appear on the X
axis. [Default: C<XINC=0.1>]

=item YINC=

Y axis tick increment.  If C<XINC=> (a null value),
the macro calculates an increment from the data
which is 1, 2, 2.5, 4, or 5 times a power of 10
so that about 6 tick marks will appear on the X
axis. [Default: C<YINC=0.1>]

=item XPEXTRA=

Number of extra X axis tick marks at the high end.
Use the C<XPEXTRA=> and C<XMEXTRA=> parameters to extend the
range of the X variable beyond the data values, e.g.,
to accommodate labels for points in a plot.
[Default: C<XPEXTRA=0>]

=item XMEXTRA=

Number of extra X axis tick marks at the low end.
[Default: C<XMEXTRA=0>]

=item YPEXTRA=

Number of extra Y axis tick marks at the high end.
Use the C<YPEYTRA=> and C<YMEYTRA=> parameters to extend the
range of the Y variable beyond the data values, e.g.,
to accommodate additional annotations in a plot.
[Default: C<YPEXTRA=0>]

=item YMEXTRA=

Number of extra Y axis tick marks at the low end.
[Default: C<XMEXTRA=0>]

=item VAXIS=

Name of the AXIS statement for Y axis [Default: C<VAXIS=AXIS98>]

=item HAXIS=

Name of the AXIS statement for X axis [Default: C<HAXIS=AXIS99>]

=item PLOT=

Draw the plot? [Default: C<PLOT=NO>]

=back 4

