=head1 Description

The FFOLD macro produces fourfold displays for one or more 2 x 2
tables.  Each 2x2 table may be standardized so that the marginal
frequencies of either, or both variables are equated, while
preserving the odds ratio.  The collection of fourfold displays
may be arranged on one or more pages, each of which has C<DOWN=>
rows, and C<ACROSS=> columns.

=head1 Usage

The FFOLD macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %ffold(data=toxaemia, var=Hyper Urea, by=Smoke Class);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input dataset, which must represent a
2 x 2 x K x ... contingency table in frequency form
(one observation per cell, with a C<COUNT=> variable
giving the cell frequency.  [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Names of two two-level factor variables defining the
2 x 2 tables.  The variables may be character or
numeric.  The order in which the C<VAR=> variables 
(and C<BY=>, if any) are listed determines their order
in the displays.

=item BY=

Name(s) of BY variables, determining the panels of the
plot.  If there are two or more C<BY=> variables, the panels
are produced so that the last C<BY=> variable varies most
rapidly.

=item COUNT=

Name of the frequency variable in the input data set.
[Default: C<COUNT=COUNT>]

=item STD=

Specifies how to standardize the 2 x 2 table(s).
C<STD='MARG'> standardizes each 2x2 table to equal margins, 
keeping the odds ratio fixed (see CONFIG). C<STD='MAX'> 
standardizes each table to a maximum cell frequency of 100,
equating the maximum frequency across all 2 x 2 tables.
C<STD='MAXALL'> standardizes all tables to max(f[i,j,k])=100.
C<STD='TOTAL'> standardizes to the maximum total over all tables.

=item CONFIG=

Specifies the margins to standardize when C<STD=MARG.>
C<CONFIG=1 2> equates both margins. C<CONFIG=1> equates the
margins for the first C<VAR=> variable.  C<CONFIG=2> equates
the second C<VAR=> variable.

=item DOWN=

The number of rows of panels down each page.

=item ACROSS=

The number of columns of panels across each page.

=item ORDER=

Specifies whether the panels are displayed down
the columns (C<ORDER=DOWN>) or across the rows (C<ORDER=ACROSS>)
[Default: C<ORDER=DOWN>]

=item SANGLE=

Angle for labels at the left and right sides.
[Default: C<SANGLE=90>]

=item SHADE=

Shading levels for residuals, determined by the
magnitude of the Z-value corresponding to the
log odds ratio in a given 2x2 table. [Default: C<SHADE=2 4>]

=item ALPHA=

Error rate for confidence rings on odds ratios;
0 to suppress

=item COLORS=

Colors for + and - residuals [Default: C<COLORS=BLUE RED>]

=item FILL=

Fill type for + and - residuals [Default: C<FILL=HLS HLS>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text labels [Default: C<HTEXT=1.5>]

=item FONT=

Font for text labels [Default: C<FONT=HWPSL009> for PS,
             otherwise, SWISS]

=item PTITLE=

Panel title for plot(s), a character string, which may
include &V to list the name(s) of the panel C<BY=> variables,
and &L to list the value(s) of those variables in the
current panel.

=item FRAME=

Line style for panel frame.  Use C<FRAME=0> to suppress.

=item OUTSTAT=

Name of an output data set, containing the odds ratio (OR),
log odds ratio (LOGOR), std. error (SELOGOR), Z value,
and PRZ, for each 2x2 table.  

=back 4

