=head1 Description

Cleveland (1988) introduced the idea of the `shape parameter' of a
bivariate graph and showed that often patterns, trends and
differences can be most easily seen when the slopes of successive
line segments is about 45 degrees on average.  Setting the relative
height/width ratio of a graph on this basis is called 'banking to
45 degrees.'

The GBANK macro calculates *either* the desired height or width of
a plot so that the average slope of successive line segments is
approximately 45 degrees, facilitating perception of trends in 
the data.  The results are returned in an output data set, global
macro variables HSIZE and VSIZE are set, and a GOPTIONS statement
of the form GOPTIONS HSIZE=&HSIZE VSIZE=&VSIZE is executed.


=head2 Method

Calculate the successive slopes in a data step and use PROC SUMMARY.

=head2 Warning

The graphic device parameters XMAX and YMAX set the maximum values
for HSIZE and VSIZE, and these differ widely across SAS/Graph devices.
If a calculated value is outside the allowed maximum for the current 
GDEVICE,  SAS/Graph will reset it to the maximum. 

=head1 Usage

The GBANK macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %gbank(data=sunspot, y=sunspots, x=year, height=15, gunit=pt);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

Vertical variable for the plot [Default: C<Y=Y>]

=item X=

Horizontal variable for the plot [Default: C<X=X>]

=item FUNCTION=

Function of the absolute slope to calculate: MEDIAN or MEAN
[Default: C<FUNCTION=MEDIAN>]

=item HEIGHT=

Desired graph height; the corresponding width is calculated.
             You should set a value for either C<HEIGHT=> or WIDTH=,
          but not both. Specifying C<HEIGHT=AUTO >is the same a specifying
          a null (empty) value.

=item WIDTH=

Desired graph width; the corresponding height is calculated.

=item GUNIT=

Units for C<HEIGHT=> and C<WIDTH=>. T>ypical values are C<GUNIT=IN>,
             C<GUNIT=CM >and C<GUNIT=PT> (for pixel-based drivers) 
			 [Default: C<GUNIT=IN>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set. This contains the variables
XMIN, XMAX, YMIN, YMAX and MSLOPE [Default: C<OUT=_>bank_]



=back 4

=head1 Examples

 %include data(sunspots);

 proc summary data=sunspots nway;
    class year;
    var sunspots;
    output out=sunspot mean=sunspots;

 *-- standard plot;
 goptions hsize=4in vsize=4in;

 proc gplot data=sunspot;
    plot sunspots * year / vaxis=axis1 haxis=axis2;
    symbol1 v=none i=join;
    axis1 label=(a=90);
    axis2 order=(1750 to 2000 by 50);
    run;

 *-- banked plot, width=400 pt;
 %gbank(data=sunspot, y=sunspots, x=year, width=400, height=AUTO, gunit=pt);
 proc gplot data=sunspot;
    plot sunspots * year / vaxis=axis1  haxis=axis2;
    symbol1 v=none i=join;
    axis1 label=none value=none;
    axis2 order=(1750 to 2000 by 50);
    run;




