=head1 Description

The GDISPLA macro is used to switch graphics display off or on, in
a device-independent way.  

It allows for the fact that for direct
output to the display device, the required GOPTIONS are C<NODISPLAY>
or C<DISPLAY>, whereas for output to a GSF, GIF, or EPS file, the options
are C<GSFMODE=NONE> or C<GSFMODE=APPEND>.  It is usually used with the
PANELS macro or the SCATMAT macro, or other programs which produce
multiple plots and then join those plots in a template using
PROC GREPLAY.

=head1 Usage

The GDISPLA macro is called with positional parameters.  The first
(SWITCH) parameter must be specified.  The second parameter is only
used within SAS/IML.

  %let devtype=SCREEN;
  %gdispla(OFF);
  proc gplot;
     plot y * x;
     by group;
  %gdispla(ON);
  %panels(rows=1, cols=3);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item SWITCH

A string value, OFF or ON.  

=item IML

Specify any non-blank value to use the GDISPLA macro
within SAS/IML.


=back 4

=head2 Global parameters

The macro uses one global macro parameter, C<DEVTYP>, to determine the
appropriate action. This parameter is normally initialized either in 
the F<AUTOEXEC.SAS> file, or in device-specific macros.
For example, a macro to initialize EPS output should set 
the macro variable C<DEVTYP=EPS>, using

 %let devtype=eps;



=over 4

=item DEVTYP

String value, the type of graphic device driver.  The
values EPS, GIF, CGM and WMF cause the macro to use
the C<GSMODE> option; the value C<DEVTYPE=SCREEN> causes the
macro to use the C<DISPLAY> or C<NODISPLAY> option.
All other values are ignored.

=back 4

