=head1 Description

The GENCORR macro calculates a generalized correlation
matrix for a data set containing a mixture of continuous and
ordinal variables.  For pairs of ordinal variables, the polychoric
(or, for 2x2 tables, the tetrachoric) correlation is calculated; 
otherwise (in is version), the Pearson correlation is calculated. 
Alternatively, a distance matrix, calculated as 1-r**2 may be reqested. 

=head2 Method

The program simply runs PROC FREQ (for pairs of ordinal variables)
or PROC CORR for each pair of variables,  and assembles the results 
in an output data set.  It is therefore horribly inefficient for large
problems, since it makes p*(p-1)/2 passes over the input data set.

=head1 Usage

The GENCORR macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %gencorr();

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set. If the C<DATA=> option is not
             supplied, the most recently created SAS data set is
             used. [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

The names of the variables to be analyzed. Individual variable
             names, separated by blanks, must be specified.  
             By default, all numeric variables found in the data set will 
             be used. [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item WEIGHT=

Specifies the name of an input variable to be used
             as an observation weight. If specified, you must list
             the C<VAR=> variables explicitly, rather than using the
             default (_NUMERIC_).

=item VTYPE=

A list of C, for continous, and O for ordinal, corresponding
             to the variables in the C<VAR=> list.  If the C<VTYPE=> list is
             shorter than the C<VAR=> list, the former is repeated as
             necessary.  The default treats all variables as ordinal.
             [Default: C<VTYPE=O>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=_CORR>]

=item TYPE=

Specifies the type of matrix to be created.  If 
             C<TYPE=CORR >(the default), then a correlation matrix is 
             computed and the output data set is assigned a data set 
             type of CORR.  If C<TYPE=DISTANCE>, then a distance matrix 
             is computed and the output dat set is assigned a data 
             set type of DISTANCE.


=back 4

=head1 Example

  *-- Create a set of 5 ordinal variables with an AR(1) structure
      plus two continuous variables;
  data mixed;
     array x{5} x1-x7; 
     do n=1 to 50;
        do i=1 to 5;
           if i=1 
              then x{i}=rantbl(238423, .1,.2,.4,.2,.1);
              else x{i}=rantbl(238423, .1,.2,.4,.2,.1) + 4 * x{i-1};
        end;
        x6 = normal(238423);
        x7 = sum(x1, x2, x6) + 2* normal(238423);
        keep x1-x7; 
        output;
     end; 
     run;

  %gencorr(data=mixed, 
     var=   x1 x2 x3 x4 x5 x6 x7,
     vtype=  O  O  O  O  O  C  C);



