=head1 Description

The GENSYM macro generates a series of SYMBOL statements for multiple
group plots of the form

  proc gplot;
     plot y * x = group;

Separate plot symbols, colors, line styles and interpolation options
may be generated for each group.

=head1 Usage

The GENSYM macro is called with keyword parameters.  All parameters
have default values, but the C<N=> parameter must usually be specified.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %gensym(n=4);

The C<INTERP=>, C<LINE=>, C<SYMBOLS=>, and C<COLORS=> parameters are each lists
of one or more values. If fewer than N (blank delimited) values are
given,  the available values are reused cyclically as needed.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item N=

The number of groups. C<N=> symbol statements are constructed,
named SYMBOL1, SYMBOL2, ..., SYMBOLN.

=item H=

The height of the plotting symbol. The same C<H=> value is
used for all SYMBOL statements. [Default: C<H=1.5>]

=item INTERP=

List of one or more interpolation options. 
[Default: C<INTERP=NONE>]

=item LINE=

List of one or more numbers in the range 1..46 giving
SAS/GRAPH line styles [Default: C<LINE=1>]

=item SYMBOLS=

A list of one or more names of SAS/GRAPH plotting symbols.
[Default: C<SYMBOLS=%STR(SQUARE TRIANGLE : $ = X _ Y)>]

=item COLORS=

A list of one or more names of SAS/GRAPH colors.
[Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED GREEN BLUE BROWN YELLOW ORANGE PURPLE>]


=back 4

=head1 Example

To plot the four combinations of age group (old, young) and sex, with
separate plotting symbols (circle, dot) for old vs. young, and
separate colors (red, blue) for females vs. males, use the macro as
follows:

  proc gplot;
     plot y * x = agesex;
     %gensym(n=4, symbols=circle circle dot dot, colors=red blue,
        interp=rl);

