=head1 Description

The GENSCAT macro produces generalized scatterplot matrix for
all pairs of variables, which may be categorical or numeric
(Friendly, 1999).  For pairs consisting of two numeric variables, an 
ordinary scatterplot is produced; pairs of two categorical variables 
are shown by a mosaic plot; pairs of one categorical and one numeric 
variable are shown by boxplots.

=head1 Usage

The GENSCAT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %genscat(data=test, var=X1 X2 Group Sex, group=gp);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the data set to be plotted. [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of the variables to be plotted. You can use any of
             the standard SAS abbreviations. [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item NAMES=

Alternative variable names used to label the diagonal
             cells

=item TYPES=

List of variable types, corresponding to the names in C<VAR=>
             used to override the default treatment of numeric variables:
             a list of C and N.

=item GROUP=

Grouping variable (determines plot symbols in scatterplots)

=item INTERP=

Plot interpolation method [Default: C<INTERP=NONE>]

=item HSYM=

Height of plot symbols

=item HTITLE=

Height of variable name titles for diag panels

=item PLOTOPT=

Additional plot options

=item SYMBOLS=

List of symbols used for observations in scatterplots.
             [Default: C<SYMBOLS=%STR(CIRCLE SQUARE + : $ = X _ Y)>]

=item COLORS=

List of colors used in scatterplots and boxplots.
             [Default: C<COLORS=BLUE RED GREEN BROWN BLACK YELLOW ORANGE PURPLE>]

=item ANNO=

Annotate diagonal or off-diag plot. At present, C<ANNO=BOX> adds a boxplot
             to diagonal plots, C<ANNO=ELLIPSE> adds a data ellipse to off-diagonal
             plots for pairs of numeric variables. [Default: C<ANNO=NONE>]

=item GTEMP=

Temporary graphics catalog.  For repeated use within
             the SAS Session Manager, need to start a new catalog,
             and kill it at the end.  [Default: C<GTEMP=GTEMP>]

=item KILL=

Delete GTEMP when done [Default: C<KILL=Y>]

=item GOUT=

Name for output graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]

=item NAME=

Graph name in output graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GENSCAT>]


=back 4

=head2 Dependencies

GENSCAT requires the following macros:

gdispla
gensym
boxaxis
contour
table
mosaic
boxplot
panels


=head1 References

Friendly, M. ``Extending Mosaic Displays: Marginal, Conditional, and
Partial Views of Categorical Data'', JCGS, 8:373-395, 1999.
L<http://www.math.yorku.ca/SCS/Papers/drew/drew.pdf>

