=head1 Description

The GOODFIT macro carries out Chi-square goodness-of-fit tests for
discrete distributions.  These include the uniform, binomial,
Poisson, negative binomial, geometric, and logarithmic series
distributions, as well as any discrete (multinomial) distribution
whose probabilities you can specify.  Both the Pearson chi-square
and likelihood-ratio chi-square are computed.

The data may consist either of individual observations on a single
variable, or a grouped frequency distribution.  

The parameter(s) of the distribution may be specified as constants
or may be estimated from the data.

=head1 Usage

The GOODFIT macro is called with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated by commas. For example: 

  %goodfit(var=k, freq=freq, dist=binomial);

You must specify a C<VAR=> analysis variable and the keyword for the
distribution to be fit with the C<DIST=> parameter.  All other parameters
are optional.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input data set to be analyzed.
[Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Specifies the name of the variable to be analyzed, the basic
count variable.

=item FREQ=

Specifies the name of a frequency variable for a grouped data
set.  If no C<FREQ=> variable is specified, the program assumes
the data set is ungrouped, and calculates frequencies using
PROC FREQ.  In this case you can specify a SAS format with the
C<FORMAT=> parameter to control the way the observations are
grouped.

=item DIST=

Specifies the name of the discrete distribution to be fit.
The allowable values are:
UNIFORM, DISCRETE, BINOMIAL, POISSON, NEGBIN, GEOMETRIC,
LOGSERIES.

=item PARM=

Specifies the value of parameter(s) for the distribution being
fit.  If C<PARM=> is not specified, the parameter(s) are estimated
using maximum likelihood or method of moment estimators.

* item SUMAT=

For a distribution where frequencies for values of the C<VAR=>
variable = I<k> have been lumped into a single category, specify
C<SUMAT=>I<k> causes the macro to sum the probabilities and fitted
frequencies for all values >= I<k>.
[Default: C<SUMAT=10000>]


=item FORMAT=

The name of a SAS format used when no C<FREQ=> variable has been
specified.

=item OUT=

Name of the output data set containing the grouped frequency
distribution, estimated fitted frequencies (EXP) and the values
of the Pearson (CHI) and deviance (DEV) residuals.
[Default: C<OUT=FIT>]

=item OUTSTAT=

Name of the output data set containing goodness-of-fit
statistics.
[Default: C<OUTSTAT=STATS>]

=back 4

=head2 See also

=over 4

=item L<rootgram>

=item L<distplot>

=item L<poisplot>

=item L<ordplot>

=back 4

