=head1 Description

The GSIZE macro is designed to deal with the following infelicity
in SAS/Graph:  For most graphic devices, the size of graphs is set
by the HSIZE and GSIZE graphic options; however, for pixel-based
devices, you must use XPIXELS and YPIXELS.  Thus, you have to change
the GOPTIONS you set to switch from, e.g., a PS or PDF device to
a pixel-based device (e.g., JPG, GIF).

The GSIZE macro allows all graphic output sizes to be set via
HSIZE and VSIZE, with units in IN or CM.

=head1 Usage

The GSIZE macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %global devtyp; %let devtyp=JPG;
  %gsize(hsize=6, vsize=6, options=htext=1.8);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item HSIZE=

Horizontal size

=item VSIZE=

Vertical size

=item UNIT=

Unit for HSIZE and VSIZE: either IN or CM [Default: C<UNIT=IN>]

=item XPIXELS=

Horizontal size (pixels)

=item YPIXELS=

Vertical size (pixels)

=item OPTIONS=

Other graphic options

=item DPI=

Dots per inch, for pixel devices [Default: C<DPI=96>]

=back 4

=head2 Global parameters

The macro uses one global macro parameter, C<DEVTYP>, to determine whether
the current graphic device driver is pixel-based. This parameter can be initialized in 
the AUTOEXEC.SAS file, or in device-specific macros

=over 4

=item DEVTYP

String value, the type of graphic device driver.  The
           values GIF, JPG and PNG cause the macro to translate
        HSIZE and VSIZE to XPIXELS and YPIXELS.
           All other values are ignored.



=back 4

=head1 Notes

Device drivers in SAS/Graph have a maximum horizontal and vertical size
set as XMAX and YMAX. This macro doesn't check whether the computed
sizes exceeed those limits.


