=head1 Description

The GSKIP macro is designed to handle difficulties in producing
multiple plots in one SAS job.  For EPS, GIF, CGM and WMF drivers,
it assigns a new output filename for the next plot.  For FOILS
(on continuous forms) it skips the normally blank non-foil
separator page.  Otherwise, it has no effect.

=head1 Usage

The GSKIP macro has one optional positional parameter.  It relies on global
macro parameters, DISPLAY, DEVTYP, FIG, GSASFILE, and GSASDIR.
These parameters are normally initialized either in the AUTOEXEC.SAS
file, or in device-specific macros.  For example, for normal graphic
output to the Graph Window, assign DISPLAY and DEVTYPE as

  %let devtype=SCREEN;
  %let displa=ON;

For EPS file output,

  %let devtype=EPS;
  %let fig=1;
  %let gsasfile=myfig;

GSKIP is normally used after each graphic procedure or macro to advance
the FIG counter and open a new graphic output file.  For example,

  proc gplot;
     plot y * x;
  %gskip();

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item INC

The value by which the C<FIG> counter is incremented, normally
1 (the default).  Use the C<INC> parameter after a plot with
a BY statement.  For example,

  proc gplot;
     plot y * x; by sex;
  %gskip(2);

=back 4

=head2 Global Parameters

=over 4

=item DISPLAY

String value, C<ON> or C<OFF>, usually set by the GDISPLA macro.
The GISKP macro takes no action if C<DISPLAY=OFF>.

=item DEVTYP

String value, the type of graphic device driver.  The
values C<EPS>, C<GIF>, C<CGM> and C<WMF> cause C<FIG=> to be incremented
and a new output filename assigned.  If C<DEVTYPE=FOILS>,
a blank graphic page is produced.  All others are ignored.

=item FIG

A numeric value, the number of the current figure.

=item GSASFILE

String value, the basename of the graphic output file(s).
The output files are named according to the macro expression

     %scan(&gsasfile,1,.)&fig..%lowcase(&devtyp)

e.g.,  myfile1.eps, myfile2.eps, ....

=item GSASDIR

String value, the output directory in which the graphic
files are written.  If not specified, output goes to the
current directory.


=back 4
