=head1 Description

The HALFNORM macro plots the ordered absolute values of residuals
from a generalized linear model against expected values of normal
order statistics.  A simulated envelope, correponding to an
approximate 95% confidence interval, is added to the plot to aid
assessment of whether the distribution of residuals corresponds
to a good-fitting model.

=head1 Usage

The HALFNORM macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<RESP=>
and C<MODEL=> parameters are required.  The arguments may be listed
within parentheses in any order, separated by commas. For example:

  %halfnorm(resp=count, class=sex response, model=sex|year|response@2);


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input data set to be analyzed.
The default is the last data set created.

=item Y=


=item RESP=

Specifies the name of the response variable to be analyzed

=item TRIALS=

The name of a trials variable, for C<DIST=BIN>, with the data
in events/trials form.

=item MODEL=

Specifies the model formula, the right-had-side of the
MODEL statement.  You can use the | and @ shorthands.

=item CLASS=

Names of any class variables in the model

=item DIST=

Error distribution.  The default is C<DIST=NORMAL.>

=item LINK=

Link function.  The default is C<LINK=IDENTITY.>

=item OFFSET=

The name(s) of any offset variables in the model.

=item FREQ=

The name of a frequency variable, when the data are in grouped
form.

=item ID=

The name of a character variable used as an observation
identifier in the plot...

=item OUT=

Specifies the name of the output data set. The output data
set contains the input variables, absolute residuals (_ARES_),
half-normal expected value (_Z_),
Default: _RES_.

=item LABEL=

Specifies whether and how to label observations in the plot.
C<LABEL=ALL> means that all observations are labelled with the
C<ID=> variable value; C<LABEL=NONE> means that no observations are
labelled; C<LABEL=ABOVE> means that observations above the mean
of the simulations are labelled; C<LABEL=TOP> n means that the
highest n observations are labelled.

=item SEED=

Specifies the seed for the random number generators. C<SEED=0>
(the default) uses the time-of-day as the seeed, so a
different set of simulated observations is drawn each time
the program is run.

=item RES=

The type of residual to plot.  Possible values are:
STRESCHI (adjusted Pearson residual), STRESDEV (adjusted deviance
residual), 


=back 4
