=head1 Description

The HECAN macro produces a canonical HE plot for one factor effect in
a multivariate linear model (MANOVA).  This is a plot of the between-
and within-class variation projected in the space that maximally
discrimnates among groups.

=head2 Method

The HECAN macro uses the CANPLOT macro to find the coordinates of group means
and variable vectors in canonical space, followed by the HEPLOT macro
of the canonical variables to produce the HE plot.

=head1 Usage

The HECAN macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %hecan(data=soils, var=pH--Conduc, class=Gp);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

The names of two or more variables to be analyzed.  This may be given as
             a blank-separated list or a SAS abbreviation, e.g., X1-X10, educ--density.

=item CLASS=

List of class/factor variables

=item COLORS=

Colors for the class variable levels

=item INC=

X, Y axis increments, passed to CANPLOT

=item VECSCALE=

Scale factor for variable vectors in CANPLOT.  If C<VECSCALE=AUTO >(the
             default), the scale factor is calculated from the ratio of ranges of
          the variable vectors to observation points. [Default: C<VECSCALE=AUTO>]

=item ANNOADD=

Additional annotations for HEPLOT

=item CANX=

Horizontal axis of plot [Default: C<CANX=CAN1>]

=item CANY=

Vertical axis of plot [Default: C<CANY=CAN2>]

=item LEGEND=

Legend statement for HEPLOT [Default: C<LEGEND=NONE>]

=item VAXIS=

Name of an axis statement for the y variable.  If you specify C<VAXIS=AXIS98>,
             the program uses an equated axis statement generated by the CANPLOT macro

=item HAXIS=

Name of an axis statement for the x variable.  If you specify C<HAXIS=AXIS99>,
             the program uses an equated axis statement generated by the CANPLOT macro


=item CIRCLES=

Draw the confidence circles for the canonical means? [Default: C<CIRCLES=NO>]

=item CAPLOT=

Draw the plot produced by CANPLOT? [Default: C<CAPLOT=NO>]


=back 4

=head1 References

Friendly, M. (2006).
  Data Ellipses, HE Plots and Reduced-Rank Displays for Multivariate Linear 
  Models: SAS Software and Examples. 
  I<Journal of Statistical Software>, 17(6), 1-42.
  L<http://www.jstatsoft.org/v17/i06/>

Friendly, M. (2007).
  HE plots for Multivariate General Linear Models.
  I<Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics>, 16, in press.
  L<http://www.math.yorku.ca/SCS/Papers/heplots.pdf>


