=head1 Description

The HEMAT macro plots the covariance ellipses for a hypothesized (H)
effect and for error (E) for all pairs of variables from a MANOVA
or multivariate multiple regression.

=head2 Method

The macro calls HEPLOT within nested %do ... %end loops to plot all
pairs of responses.  This is wrapped with calls to the GDISPLA macro 
to suppress display of the individual plots.  The final display is
produced by PROC GREPLAY.  In order to make this macro reusable with
a single SAS session, the separate plots are saved in a temporary
graphics catalog (GTEMP=work.gtemp), which is normally deleted at the end
(C<GKILL=Y>).

=head1 Usage

The HEMAT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %hemat(data=iris, stat=stats, 
     var=SepalLen SepalWid PetalLen PetalWid,
     effect=species);


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the raw data set to be plotted [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item STAT=

Name of C<OUTSTAT=> dataset from PROC GLM

=item EFFECT=

Name of MODEL effect to be displayed for the H matrix.
             This must be one of
             the terms on the right hand side of the MODEL statement used
          in the PROC GLM or PROC REG step, in the same format that this
          efffect is labeled in the C<STAT=> dataset. This must be one of
          the values of the _SOURCE_ variable contained in the C<STAT=> 
          dataset.

=item VAR=

Names of response variables to be plotted - can be
             a list or X1-X4 or VARA--VARB [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item NAMES=

Alternative variable names (used to label the diagonal
             cells.)

=item M1=

First matrix: either H or H+E [Default: M1=H]

=item M2=

Second matrix either E or I [Default: M2=E]

=item SCALE=

Scale factors for M1 and M2.  See description in HEPLOT

=item HTITLE=

Height of variable name in diagonal cells

=item SYMBOLS=

Not used

=item COLORS=

Colors for the H and E ellipses [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED>]

=item ANNO=

Annotate diag or off-diag plot [Default: C<ANNO=NONE>]

=item GTEMP=

Temporary graphics catalog [Default: C<GTEMP=GTEMP>]

=item KILL=

Delete grtemp when done [Default: C<KILL=Y>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the graphic catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

