=head1 Description

The HEMREG macro extracts hypothesis (H) and error (E) matrices for an
overall test in a multivariate regression analysis, in a form similar to
that provided by the C<OUTSTAT=> option with PROC GLM.  This is typically
used with the HEPLOT macro, or the MPOWER macro for MMRA.

=head2 Method

For a multivariate regression analysis, using

  proc glm outstat=stats;
     model y1 y2 y3 = x1-x5;

PROC GLM will produce 5 separate 3x3, 1 df SSCP matrices for the separate
predictors X1-X5, in the C<OUTSTAT=> data set, but no SSCP matrix for
the overall multivariate test. The HEMREG macro uses PROC REG instead,
obtains the HypothesisSSCP and ErrorSSCP tables using ODS, and massages
these into the same format used by PROC GLM.


=head1 Usage

The HEMREG macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<Y=> and
C<X=> parameters are required.  One or more overall hypotheses involving
subsets of the C<X=> variables may be specified with the C<MTEST=> parameter.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %hemreg(y=SAT PPVT RAVEN, x=N S NS NA SS);
  %hemreg(y=SAT PPVT RAVEN, x=N S NS NA SS, mtest=%str(N,S,NS), hyp=N:S:NS);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of input dataset [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

List of response variables.  Must be an explicit,
blank-seaparated list of variable names, and all variables
must be numeric.  

=item X=

List of predictor variables.  Must be an explicit,
             blank-seaparated list of variable names, and all variables
          must be numeric. 

=item HYP=

Name for each overall hypothesis tested, corresponding to
the test(s) specified in the C<MTEST=> parameter (to be used as 
the C<EFFECT=> parameter in the HEPLOT macro).  [Default: C<HYP=H1>]

=item MTEST=

If C<MTEST=> is not specified (the default), a multivariate test
of all C<X=> predictors is carried out, giving an overall H matrix.
Otherwise, C<MTEST=> can specify one or more multivariate tests of
subsets of the predictors, separated by '/', where the variables
within each subset are separated by ','. In this case, the embedded
','s must be protected by surrounting the parameter value in
C<%str()>.  For example, 

            MTEST = %str(group / x1, x2, x3 / x4, x5)

In this case you might specify C<HYP=Group X1:X3 X4:X5> to name
the H matrices.

=item SS=

Type of SSCP matrices to compute: Either SS1 or SS2, corresponding
to sequential and partial SS computed by PROC REG. If C<SS=SS2>,
the _TYPE_ variable in the output data set is changed to
C<_TYPE_='SS3' >to conform with PROC GLM. [Default: C<SS=SS2>] 

=item OUT=

The name of output HE dataset [Default: C<OUT=HE>]


=back 4

