=head1 Description

The HEPLOTS macro plots the covariance ellipses for one or more
hypothesized (H) effects and for error (E) for two variables from a
multivariate linear model (MLM).  For a MANOVA effect, the plot helps to
show how the means of the groups differ on the two variables jointly,
in relation to the within-group variation. 

The original HEPLOT macro does this for a single H effect. The HEPLOTS
macro also provides a scaling of the H ellipses (C<SIZE=EVIDENCE>) so that
an H ellipse will protrude beyond the E ellipse, somewhere in the full
p-variable space (not necessarily for the chosen C<X=> and C<Y=> variables),
if and only if the Roy greatest-root test is significant at the specified
C<ALPHA=> level.

One alternative two-dimensional view is provided by the
CANPLOT macro, which shows the data, variables, and within-group ellipses
projected into the space of the largest two canonical variables---
linear combinations of the responses for which the group differences
are largest. The HECAN macro displays the H and E ellipses in canonical
space.

Typically, you perform a MANOVA analysis with PROC GLM, and save the
output statistics, including the H and E matrices, using the C<OUTSTAT=>
option.  This must be supplied to the macro as the value of the
C<STAT=> parameter.  If you also supply the raw data for the analysis
via the C<DATA=> parameter, the means for the levels of the C<EFFECT=>
parameter are also shown on the plot.



=head1 Usage

The HEPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<STATS=>
parameter and either the C<VAR=> or the C<X=> and C<Y=> parameters are required.
You must also specify the C<EFFECTS=> parameter, indicating the H matrices
to be extracted from the C<STATS=> data set.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  proc glm data=dataset outstat=HEstats;
     model y1 y2  = A B A*B / ss3;
     manova;
  %heplots(data=dataset, stat=HEstats, var=y1 y2, effects=A B A*B );

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item STAT=

Name of the C<OUTSTAT=> dataset from proc glm containing the
             SSCP matrices for model effects and ERROR, as indicated by
          the _SOURCE_ variable.

=item DATA=

Name of the input, raw data dataset (for means)

=item X=

Name of the horizontal variable for the plot

=item Y=

Name of the vertical variable for the plot

=item VAR=

2 response variable names: x y.  Instead of specifying C<X=>
             and C<Y=> separately, you can specify the names of two response
          variables with the C<VAR=> parameter.

=item EFFECT=

Name(s) of the MODEL effect(s) to be displayed as H matrices.
             This must be a blank-separated list of one or more
             terms on the right hand side of the MODEL statement used
          in the PROC GLM or PROC REG step, in the same format that this
          efffect is labeled in the C<STAT=> dataset. These must be among
          the values of the _SOURCE_ variable contained in the C<STAT=> 
          dataset.


=item EFFECTS=

Synonym for C<EFFECT=>

=item CLASS=

Names of class variables(s) [Default: CLASS=&EFFECT]

=item EFFLAB=

Label(s) (up to 16 characters) for the H effects, 
             annotated near the upper corner of the H ellipses. 
          [Default: EFFLAB=&EFFECT]

=item EFFLOC=

Location for the effect label: MAX (above) or MIN (below). Can
             be a list corresponding to the effects. [Default: C<EFFLOC=MAX>]

=item MPLOT=

Matrices to plot, a list of integers from 1 to the number of
             effects

=item GPFMT=

The name of a SAS format for levels of the group/effect variable used
             in labeling group means.

=item SIZE=

How to scale H ellipse(s) relative to E. If C<SIZE=EVIDENCE >or C<SIZE=SIGNIF>,
             the H ellipses are scaled so a significant hypothesis ellipse extends outside the 
             E ellipse. If C<SIZE=EFFECT >the H ellipses are plotted on the same scale as the
          E ellipse. [Default: C<SIZE=EVIDENCE>]

=item ALPHA=

Significance level for Roy greatest-root test, if C<SIZE=EVIDENCE. >[Default: C<ALPHA=0.05>]

=item LEVEL=

Coverage proportion for the E ellipse for normally distributed errors. [Default: C<LEVEL=0.68>]

=item SS=

Type of SS to extract from the C<STAT=> dataset [Default: C<SS=SS3>]

=item WHERE=

To subset the C<DATA=> dataset

=item ANNO=

Name of an input annotate data set, used to add additional
             information to the plot of y * x.

=item NP=

Number of points on each ellipse [Default: C<NP=40>]

=item VAXIS=

Name of an axis statement for the y variable

=item HAXIS=

Name of an axis statement for the x variable

=item LEGEND=

Name of a LEGEND statement to identify the ellipses.  Rarely needed,
             because the ellipses are normally labeled via the C<EFFLAB=> parameter.
          [Default: C<LEGEND=NONE>]

=item COLORS=

List of colors for the H and E ellipses.  The last value is used for the
             E ellipse; all but the last value are repeated as necessary for the
          hypothesized C<EFFECT=> ellipses. [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED>]

=item LINES=

Line styles for the H and E ellipses.  The last value is used for the
             E ellipse; all but the last value are repeated as necessary for the
          hypothesized C<EFFECT=> ellipses. [Default: C<LINES=1 21>]

=item WIDTH=

Line widths for the H and E ellipses.  The last value is used for the
             E ellipse; all but the last value are repeated as necessary for the
          hypothesized C<EFFECT=> ellipses. [Default: C<WIDTH=3 2>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text labels

=item HSYM=

Height of point symbols (means)

=item PRINT=



=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=HEOUT>]

=item OUTEFF=

Name of output dataset describing effects [Default: C<OUTEFF=OUTEFF>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=HEPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head1 References

Friendly, M. (2006).
  Data Ellipses, HE Plots and Reduced-Rank Displays for Multivariate Linear 
  Models: SAS Software and Examples. 
  I<Journal of Statistical Software>, 17(6), 1-42.
  L<http://www.jstatsoft.org/v17/i06/>

Friendly, M. (2007).
  HE plots for Multivariate General Linear Models.
  I<Journal of Computational and Graphical Statistics>, 16, in press.
  L<http://www.math.yorku.ca/SCS/Papers/heplots.pdf>


