
=head1 Description

The HEPLOT macro plots the covariance ellipses for a hypothesized (H)
effect and for error (E) for two variables from a MANOVA.  The plot helps
to show how the means of the groups differ on the two variables
jointly, in relation to the within-group variation.  The test statistics
for any MANOVA are essentially saying how 'large' the variation in
H is, relative to the variation in E, and in how many dimensions.
The HEPLOT shows a two-dimensional visualization of the answer to this
question.  An alternative two-dimensional view is provided by the
CANPLOT macro, which shows the data, variables, and within-group ellipses
projected into the space of the largest two canonical variables---
linear combinations of the responses for which the group differences
are largest.

Typically, you perform a MANOVA analysis with PROC GLM, and save the
output statistics, including the H and E matrices, using the C<OUTSTAT=>
option.  This must be supplied to the macro as the value of the
C<STAT=> parameter.  If you also supply the raw data for the analysis
via the C<DATA=> parameter, the means for the levels of the C<EFFECT=>
parameter are also shown on the plot.

Various kinds of plots are possible, determined by the M1= and M2=
parameters.  The default is M1=H and M2=E.  If you specify M2=I
(identity matrix), then the H and E matrices are transformed to H* = eHe
(where e=E^-1/2), and E*=eEe=I, so the errors become uncorrelated, 
and the size of H* can be judged more simply in relation to a 
circular E*=I. For multi-factor designs, is it sometimes useful to 
specify M1=H+E, so that each factor can be examined in relation to the
within-cell variation.

=head1 Usage

The HEPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<STATS=>
parameter and either the C<VAR=> or the C<X=> and C<Y=> parameters are required.
You must also specify the C<EFFECT=> parameter, indicating the H matrix
to be extracted from the C<STATS=> data set.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  proc glm data=dataset outstat=HEstats;
     model y1 y2  = A B A*B / ss3;
     manova;
  %heplot(data=dataset, stat=HEstats, var=y1 y2, effect=A );
  %heplot(data=dataset, stat=HEstats, var=y1 y2, effect=A*B );

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item STAT=

Name of the C<OUTSTAT=> dataset from proc glm containing the
             SSCP matrices for model effects and ERROR, as indicated by
          the _SOURCE_ variable.

=item DATA=

Name of the input, raw data dataset (for means)

=item X=

Name of the horizontal variable for the plot

=item Y=

Name of the vertical variable for the plot

=item VAR=

2 response variable names: x y.  Instead of specifying C<X=>
             and C<Y=> separately, you can specify the names of two response
          variables with the C<VAR=> parameter.

=item EFFECT=

Name of the MODEL effect to be displayed for the H matrix.
             This must be one of
             the terms on the right hand side of the MODEL statement used
          in the PROC GLM or PROC REG step, in the same format that this
          efffect is labeled in the C<STAT=> dataset. This must be one of
          the values of the _SOURCE_ variable contained in the C<STAT=> 
          dataset.

=item CLASS=

Names of class variables(s), used to find the means for groups
             to be displayed in the plot.  The default value is the value
          specified for EFFECT=, except that '*' characters are changed
          to spaces. Set CLASS=, (null) for a quantitative regressor or to
             suppress plotting the means.

=item EFFLAB=

Label (up to 16 characters) for the H effect, annotated near the max/min
             corner of the H ellipse. [Default: EFFLAB=&EFFECT]

=item EFFLOC=

Location for the effect label: MAX (above) or MIN (below).[Default: C<EFFLOC=MAX>]

=item MPLOT=

Matrices to plot C<MPLOT=1 >plots only the H ellipse. [Default: C<MPLOT=1 2>]

=item GPFMT=

The name of a SAS format for levels of the group/effect variable used in labeling
             group means.

=item ALPHA=

Non-coverage proportion for the ellipses [Default: C<ALPHA=0.32>]

=item PVALUE=

Coverage proportion, 1-alpha [Default: C<PVALUE=0.68>]

=item SS=

Type of SS to extract from the C<STAT=> dataset. The possibilities
             are SS1-SS4, or CONTRAST (but the SSn option on the MODEL statement in
          PROC GLM will limit the types of SSCP matrices produced).
          This is the value of the _TYPE_ variable in the C<STAT=> dataset.
          [Default: C<SS=SS3>]

=item WHERE=

To subset both the C<STAT=> and C<DATA=> datasets

=item ANNO=

Name of an input annotate data set, used to add additional
             information to the plot of y * x.

=item ADD=

Specify C<ADD=CANVEC >to add canonical vectors to the plot. The
             PROC GLM step must have included the option CANONICAL on the
          MANOVA statement.

=item M1=

First matrix: either H or H+E [Default: M1=H]

=item M2=

Second matrix either E or I [Default: M2=E]

=item SCALE=

Scale factors for M1 and M2.  This can be a pair of numeric
             values or expressions using any of the scalar values calculated
          in the PROC IML step.  The default scaling [C<SCALE=1 1>]
             results in a plot of E/dfe and H/dfe, where the size 
          and orientation of E shows error variation on the data scale,
          and H is scaled conformably, allowing the group means to be
          shown on the same scale. The _natural scaling_ of H and E
          as generalized mean squares would be H/dfh and E/dfe, which is
          obtained using SCALE=dfe/dfh 1, Equivalently, the E matrix can
          be shrunk by the same factor by specifying C<SCALE=1 >dfh/dfe.  

=item VAXIS=

Name of an axis statement for the y variable

=item HAXIS=

Name of an axis statement for the x variable

=item LEGEND=

Name of a LEGEND statement.  If not specified, a legend for
             the M1 annd M2 matrices is drawn beneath the plot.

=item COLORS=

Colors for the H and E ellipses [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED>]

=item LINES=

Line styles for the H and E ellipses [Default: C<LINES=1 21>]

=item WIDTH=

Line widths for the H and E ellipses [Default: C<WIDTH=3 2>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text in the plot.  If not specified, the global
             graphics option HTEXT controls this. 

=item OUT=

Name of the output dataset containing the points on the
             H and E ellipses. [Default: C<OUT=OUT>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graphic catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=HEPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the graphic catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]



=back 4

