=head1 Description

The HOVPLOT macro provides a graphical display of information
related to the Levine and Brown-Forsythe tests of homogeneity of 
variance in factorial ANOVA designs.  

Of the recommended tests of homogeneity of variance, the Levine 
test and the Brown-Forsythe test take simple forms amenable to
graphical display.  Both of these are based on an ANOVA of simple 
functions of a dispersion variable,

   Z  = abs (Y - median)      [Brown-Forsythe]
   Z  = abs (Y - mean)        [Levine, C<TYPE=ABS>]
   Z  =     (Y - mean)^2      [Levine, C<TYPE=SQUARE>]

O'Brien's (1979) test, is a modification of Levine's Z^2, with a more
complex formula.  The Brown-Forsythe test appears to have the greatest
power for detecting non-constant variance.

The HOVPLOT macro displays these quantities by a set of boxplots,
one for each cell in the design.  Lack of homogeneity of variance
is indicated by differences in spread across cells.

=head2 Method

Statistical tests are provided by PROC GLM using the
C<HOVTEST=> option on the MEANS statement, but only for one-way
designs.  The HOVPLOT extends this test to n-way designs by
combining multiple C<CLASS=> variables into a single combined variable
(whose values should be distinct) representing all the cells in
the design.

=head1 Usage

The HOVPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=> and
C<CLASS=> parameters are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %hovplot(data=animals, var=time, class=Treatmt Poison, sortby=_iqr_);


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input dataset [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item WHERE=

WHERE clause to subset the data

=item CLASS=

Grouping variable(s)

=item CLASSFMT=

Format used for the C<CLASS=> variable(s)

=item SEP=

Separator character used to join the values of 2 or more CLASS vars [Default: SEP=%str()]

=item VAR=

Name of the analysis variable

=item ID=

Observation ID variable, used to label extreme observations
             in the boxplots.

=item SORTBY=

How to order the classes in the boxplot.  Specify the
             name of a dataset variable, or one of the keywords
             _mean_, _iqr_, _median_, etc. recognized by the
             BOXPLOT macro. [Default: SORTBY=]

=item CONNECT=

Line style to connect medians, or 0 to suppress connecting lines [Default: C<CONNECT=1>]

=item NOTCH=

0 or 1, where 1 gives a notched boxplot

=item METHOD=

Type of HOV test: one of C<BF> or C<LEVINE>, C<LEVINE(TYPE=ABS)>,
 C<LEVINE(TYPE=SQUARE)>, or C<OBRIEN>.  Use C<METHOD=> (null) or 
C<METHOD=NONE> to suppress the numerical test.
[Default: C<METHOD=BF>]

=item CENTER=

Central value subtracted from Y [Default: C<CENTER=MEDIAN>]

=item FUNCTION=

Function of (Y-&center) plotted, either ABS or SQUARE
             [Default: C<FUNCTION=ABS>]

=item OUT=

Name of output dataset, a copy of the input dataset, 
             containing additional variables _CLASS_, MEDIAN, MEAN, N

=item NAME=

Name for graphic catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=HOVPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head1 Dependencies

Requires: combine.sas, boxplot.sas


