=head1 Description

The INFLGLIM macro produces various influence plots for a generalized
linear model fit by PROC GENMOD.  Each of these is a bubble plot of one
diagnostic measure (specified by the C<GY=> parameter) against another
(C<GX=>), with the bubble size proportional to a measure of influence
(usually, C<BUBBLE=COOKD>).  One plot is produced for each combination
of the C<GY=> and C<GX=> parameters.

=head1 Usage

The macro normally takes an input data set of raw data and fits the
GLM specified by the RESP=, and C<MODEL=> parameters, using an error
distribution given by the C<DIST=> parameter.  It fits the model,
obtains the OBSTATS and PARMEST data sets, and uses these to compute
some additional influence diagnostics (HAT, COOKD, DIFCHI, DIFDEV,
SERES), any of which may be used as the C<GY=> and C<GX=> variables.

Alternatively, if you have fit a model with PROC GENMOD and saved
the OBSTATS and PARMEST data sets, you may specify these with the
C<OBSTATS=> and C<PARMEST=> parameters.  The same additional diagnostics
are calculated and plotted.

The INFLGLIM macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<MODEL=>
and C<RESP=> parameters are required, and you must supply the C<DIST=>
parameter for any model with non-normal errors.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %inflglim(data=berkeley,
     class=dept gender admit,
     resp=freq, model=dept|gender dept|admit,
     dist=poisson,
     id=cell,
     gx=hat, gy=streschi);


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of input (raw data) data set. [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item RESP=

The name of response variable.  For a loglin model, this
             is usually the frequency or cell count variable when the
             data are in grouped form (specify C<DIST=POISSON >in this
             case).

=item MODEL=

Gives the model specification.  You may use the '|' and
             '@' symbols to specify the model.

=item CLASS=

Specifies the names of any class variables used in the model.

=item DIST=

The name of the PROC GENMOD error distribution.  If you
             don't specify the error distribution, PROC GENMOD uses
             C<DIST=NORMAL.>

=item LINK=

The name of the link function.  The default is the canonical
             link function for the error distribution given by the
             C<DIST=> parameter.

=item OFFSET=

The name(s) of any offset variables in the model.

=item MOPT=

Other options on the MODEL statement (e.g., C<MOPT=NOINT>
             to fit a model without an intercept).

=item FREQ=

The name of a frequency variable, when the data are in
             grouped form.

=item WEIGHT=

The name of an observation weight (SCWGT) variable, used, for
             example, to specify structural zeros in a loglin model.

=item ID=

Gives the name of a character observation ID variable
             which is used to label influential observations in the
             plots. Usually you will want to construct a character
             variable which combines the C<CLASS=> variables into a
             compact cell identifier.

=item GY=

The names of variables in the OBSTATS data set used as
             ordinates for in the plot(s).  One plot is produced for
             each combination of the words in GY by the words in GX.
             [Default: C<GY=DIFCHI STRESCHI>]

=item GX=

Abscissa(s) for plot, usually  PRED or HAT. [Default: C<GX=HAT>]

=item OUT=

Name of output data set, containing the observation
             statistics. [Default: C<OUT=COOKD>]

=item OBSTATS=

Specifies the name of the OBSTATS data set (containing
             residuala and other observation statistics) for a model 
             already fitted.

=item PARMEST=

Specifies the name of the PARMEST data set (containing
             parameter estimates) for a model already fitted.

=item BUBBLE=

Gives the name of the variable to which the bubble size is
             proportional. [Default: C<BUBBLE=COOKD>]

=item LABEL=

Determines which observations, if any, are labeled in the
             plots.  If C<LABEL=NONE>, no observations are labeled; if
             C<LABEL=ALL>, all are labeled; if C<LABEL=INFL>, only possibly
             influential points are labeled, as determined by the
             C<INFL=> parameter. [Default: C<LABEL=INFL>]

=item INFL=

Specifies the criterion used to determine which observations
             are influential (when used with C<LABEL=INFL>).
             [Default: INFL=%STR(DIFCHI > 4 OR HAT > &HCRIT OR &BUBBLE > 1)]

=item LSIZE=

Observation label size. [Default: C<LSIZE=1.5>]. The height of
             other text (e.g., axis labels) is controlled by the C<HTEXT=>
             goption.

=item LCOLOR=

Observation label color. [Default: C<LCOLOR=BLACK>]

=item LPOS=

Observation label position, relative to the point.
             [Default: C<LPOS=5>]

=item LFONT=

Font used for observation labels.

=item BSIZE=

Bubble size scale factor. [Default: C<BSIZE=10>]

=item BSCALE=

Specifies whether the bubble size is proportional to AREA 
             or RADIUS. [Default: C<BSCALE=AREA>]

=item BCOLOR=

The color of the bubble symbol. [Default: C<BCOLOR=RED>]

=item BFILL=

Bubble fill? Options are C<BFILL=SOLID >| GRADIENT, where the
             latter uses a gradient version of BCOLOR

=item REFCOL=

Color of reference lines.  Reference
             lines are drawn at nominally 'large' values for HAT values,
             standardized residuals, and change in chi square values.
             [Default: C<REFCOL=BLACK>]

=item REFLIN=

Line style for reference lines. Use C<REFLIN=0 >to suppress
             these reference lines. [Default: C<REFLIN=33>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default:
             C<NAME=INFLGLIM>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the graphics catalog.


=back 4

