=head1 Description

The INFLPLOT macro produces a variety of influence plots for a regression
model -- plots of studentized residuals vs.  leverage (hat-value),
using an influence measure (COOK's D, DFFITS, COVRATIO) as the size of
a bubble symbol.  The plot show the components of influence (residual
and leverage) as well as their combined effect.

Plots can be produced either as bubble plots with PROC GPLOT or GCONTOUR
plots of any of the influence measures overlaid with bubble symbols.
The contour plots show how the influence measures vary with residual
and leverage.  Horizontal reference lines in the plots delimit
observations whose studentized residuals are individually or jointly
(with a Bonferonni correction) significant. Vertical reference lines in
the plot shows observations which are of "high leverage".

=head1 Usage

The INFLPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters. The C<Y=> and
C<X=> parameters are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %inflplot(Y=response, C<X=X1 X2 X3 X4>, ...);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

Name of the criterion variable.

=item X=

Names of the predictors in the model.  Must be a blank-separated
             list of variable names.

=item ID=

The name of an observation ID variable.  If not specified, observations
             are labeled sequentially, 1, 2, ...

=item BUBBLE=

Influence measure shown by the bubble size.
             Specify one of COOKD, DFFITS, or COVRATIO [Default: C<BUBBLE=COOKD>]

=item CONTOUR=

Specifies influence measures shown as contours in the plot(s).
             One or more of COOKD, DFFITS, or COVRATIO.

=item LABEL=

Points to label with the value of the ID variable in the plot: 
             One of ALL, NONE or INFL.  The choice INFL causes only influential
             points to be labelled. [Default: C<LABEL=INFL>] 

=item INFL=

Criterion for declaring an influential observation,  
             a logical expression using any of the variables in the
             output C<OUT=> data set of regression diagnostics.
             The default is 

             INFL=%STR(ABS(RSTUDENT) > TCRIT
               OR HATVALUE > HCRIT
               OR ABS(&BUBBLE)  > BCRIT)

=item LSIZE=

Observation label size.  The height of other text is controlled by
             the C<HTEXT=> goption. [Default: C<LSIZE=1.5>]

=item LCOLOR=

Observation label color [Default: C<LCOLOR=BLACK>]

=item LPOS=

Observation label position, using a position value
             understood by the Annotate facility. [Default: C<LPOS=5>]

=item LFONT=

Font used for observation labels.

=item BSIZE=

Bubble size scale factor [Default: C<BSIZE=10>]

=item BSCALE=

Scale for the bubble size. C<BSCALE=AREA >makes the bubble area 
             proportional to the influence measure;  C<BSCALE=RADIUS >makes the bubble
             radius proportional to influence. [Default: C<BSCALE=AREA>]

=item BCOLOR=

Bubble color [Default: C<BCOLOR=RED>]

=item BFILL=

Bubble fill? Options are C<BFILL=SOLID >| GRADIENT, where the
             latter uses a gradient version of BCOLOR

=item HREF=

Locations of horizontal reference lines. The macro variables
             HCRIT and HCRIT1 are internally calculated as 2 and 3 times the
          average HAT value. [Default: HREF=&HCRIT &HCRIT1]

=item VREF=

Locations of vertical reference lines. The program computes
             critical values of the t-statistic for an individual residual
          (TCRIT) or for all residuals using a Bonferroni correction
          (TCRIT1)  [Default: VREF=-&TCRIT1 -&TCRIT 0 &TCRIT &TCRIT1]

=item REFCOL=

Color of reference lines [Default: C<REFCOL=BLACK>]

=item REFLIN=

Line style for reference lines. Use 0 to suppress. [Default: C<REFLIN=33>]

=item GPLOT=

Whether to draw the plot using PROC GPLOT, Y or N.  This may be useful
             if you use the C<CONTOUR=> option and want to suppress the GPLOT version.

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set containing regression diagnostics
             [Default: C<OUT=_DIAG_>]

=item OUTANNO=

Output data set containing point labels [Default: C<OUTANNO=_ANNO_>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=INFLPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog


=back 4

=head2 Dependencies

 %gskip


=head2 Example

 %include macros(inflplot);
 %include data(duncan) ;
 %inflplot(data=duncan,
   y=Prestige,       
   x=Income Educ,  
   id=job,
   bubble=cookd,
   bsize=14, lsize=2.5, bcolor=red,
   out=infl, outanno=labels,
   contour=cookd covratio);



