=head1 Description

This SAS macro produces influence plots for a logistic regression
model.  The plot shows a measure of badness of fit for a given
case (DIFDEV or DIFCHISQ) vs.  the fitted probability (PRED) or
leverage (HAT), using an influence measure (C or CBAR) as the
size of a bubble symbol.

=head1 Usage

The inflogis macro is called with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example:

  %include data(arthrit);
  %inflogis(data=arthrit,
        y=better,
        x=_sex_ _treat_ age,
        id=case,
        );

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input data set to be analyzed.
             [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

Name of the response variable

=item TRIALS=

Name of trials variable (for event/trials syntax)

=item X=

Names of predictors

=item CLASS=

Names of class variables among predictors (V8)

=item ID=

Name of observation ID variable (char)

=item OUT=

Name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=_DIAG_>]

=item GY=

Ordinate for plot: DIFDEV or DIFCHISQ [Default: C<GY=DIFDEV>]

=item GX=

Abscissa for plot: PRED or HAT [Default: C<GX=PRED>]

=item BUBBLE=

Bubble proportional to: C or CBAR [Default: C<BUBBLE=C>]

=item LABEL=

Points to label: ALL, NONE, or INFL [Default: C<LABEL=INFL>]

=item DEV=

DIFDEV/DIFCHISQ criterion for infl pts [Default: C<DEV=4>]

=item INFL=

Specifies the criterion used to determine which observations
             are influential (when used with C<LABEL=INFL>).
             [Default: INFL=%STR(DIFCHISQ > &DEV OR &BUBBLE > 1)]

=item LSIZE=

Observation label size.  The height of other text is controlled
             by the C<HTEXT=> goption. [Default: C<LSIZE=1.5>]

=item LCOLOR=

Observation label color [Default: C<LCOLOR=BLACK>]

=item LPOS=

Observation label position [Default: C<LPOS=5>]

=item LFONT=

Font used for observation labels.

=item BSIZE=

Bubble size scale factor [Default: C<BSIZE=10>]

=item BSCALE=

Bubble size proportional to AREA or RADIUS [Default: C<BSCALE=AREA>]

=item BCOLOR=

Bubble color [Default: C<BCOLOR=BLACK>]

=item BFILL=

Bubble fill? Options are C<BFILL=SOLID >| GRADIENT, where the
             latter uses a gradient version of BCOLOR

=item REFCOL=

Color of reference lines [Default: C<REFCOL=BLACK>]

=item REFLIN=

Line style for reference lines; 0->NONE [Default: C<REFLIN=33>]

=item LOPTIONS=

Options for PROC LOGISTIC [Default: C<LOPTIONS=NOPRINT>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=INFLOGIS>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the graphics catalog


=back 4

