=head1 Description

The LABELS macro creates an Annotate data set used to label
observations in a 2D (PROC GPLOT) or 3D (PROC G3D) scatterplot.
The points which are labeled may be selected by an arbitrary
logical expression from those in the input dataset. The macro
offers flexible ways to position the text label relative to either
the data point or the center of the plot. The resulting Annotate
data set would then be used with the C<ANNO=> option of PROC GPLOT
or PROC G3D.

This is an updated version of the LABEL macro, published in Visualizing
Categorical Data, renamed to 'LABELS' to avoid a conflict with the
LABEL macro in ANNOMAC.SAS.

=head1 Usage

Values must be supplied for the C<X=>, C<Y=> and C<TEXT=> parameters.  For a PROC
G3D plot, supply a value for the C<Z=> parameter as well.
The label macro is called with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %labels(x=age, y=response, text=name);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item X=

The name of the (numeric) X variable for the scatterplot,
             a numeric constant, or data step expression, in C<SYS=> coordinates.

=item Y=

The name of the (numeric) Y variable for the scatterplot
             or a numeric constant, in C<SYS=> coordinates.

=item Z=

The name of the (numeric) Z variable for a 3D scatterplot
             or a numeric constant, in C<SYS=> coordinates.

=item BY=

The name(s) of any BY variable(s) to be used for multiple
             plots.

=item CLASS=

The name(s) of any CLASS variable(s) to be used for multiple
             curves within a plot.  The effect of C<BY=> and C<CLASS=> variables
             is just to add these variables to the output data set.

=item XOFF=

An X-offset for the text label. You may specify a 
             numeric constant
             (XOFF=-1) in data units, or the name of a variable in the
             input data set. Positive values move the label
             to the right relative to the point; negative values move it
             to the left.


=item YOFF=

A Y-offset for the text label. Positive values move the label
             towards larger Y values.


=item ZOFF=

A Z-offset for the text label, for a 3D plot.

=item TEXT=

The text used to label each point. C<TEXT=> may be
             specified as a variable in the data set or a SAS
             expression involving dataset variables (e.g.,
             C<TEXT=SCAN(MODEL,1))> and/or string 
             constants.  If you supply an expression, use the 
             C<%str()> macro function,  e.g.,
             C<TEXT=%str(trim(name || '-' || place))> to protect special
             characters.

=item LEN=

Length of the TEXT variable [Default: C<LEN=16>]

=item POS=

Specifies the position of the label relative to the
             data point.  The C<POS=> value can be a character constant 
             (one of the characters in "123456789ABCDEF<+>", as used 
             by the Annotate POSITION variable), an expression involving 
             dataset variables which evaluates to one of these characters
             (e.g., C<POS=SCAN('9 1 3', _NUMBER_)>) or one of the special
             characters, "/", "|", or "-".  The special position values 
             cause the point label to be out-justified (moved outward 
             toward the edges of the plot relative to the data point.)
             by comparing the coordinates of the point to the mean of 
             X and Y (/), or to the mean of X only (|), or to the
             mean of Y only (-).

=item SYS=

Specifies the Annotate XSYS, YSYS (and ZSYS) values,
             as a list of up to 3 numeric values [Default: C<SYS=2>]

=item COLOR=

Label color: the name of a dataset character variable, a 
             SAS expression that evaluates to a SAS/Graph color or a
             string constant enclosed in quotes. [Default: C<COLOR='BLACK'>]

=item SIZE=

The size of label (in whatever units are given by the
             C<GUNIT> goption). There is no 
             default, which means that the labels inherit the 
             global C<HTEXT> setting.

=item FONT=

The name of the font used for the label.  There is no 
             default, which means that the labels inherit the 
             global C<FTEXT> setting.

=item ANGLE=

Baseline angle for label.

=item ROTATE=

Character rotate for label

=item WHEN=

When to apply label annotation? B (before) or A (after)

=item SUBSET=

An expression (which may involve any dataset variables) to
             select points.  A point will be labeled if the expression 
             evaluates to non-zero for the current observation.
             [Default: C<SUBSET=1>]

=item COPY=

The names of any variables to be copied to output dataset

=item IN=

The name of an optional input annotate data set.  If
             specified, the C<IN=> data set is concatenated with the
             C<OUT=> data set.

=item OUT=

The name of the annotate data set produced.  [Default: C<OUT=_LABEL_>]


=back 4

=head1 Example

This example plots Weight against Price for American cars in the Auto data,
labeling the most expensive cars.

  %labels(data=auto, x=price, y=weight,
           color='red', size=1.2,
           subset=origin='A' and price>10000,
           pos=1, text=scan(model,1));

  proc gplot data=auto(where=(origin='A'));
     plot weight * price / frame anno=_label_;
     symbol1 v='+'  i=none color=black h=1.5;



