=head1 Description

Given a variable containing event codes (char or numeric), the LAGS macro
creates:

=over 4

=item *

a dataset containing n+1 lagged variables, _lag0 - _lagN (_lag0
     is just a copy of the input event variable)

=item *

optionally, an (n+1)-way contingency table containing frequencies of
all combinations of events at lag0 -- lagN

=back

Either or both of these datasets may be used for subsequent analysis
of sequential dependencies.  One or more C<BY=> variables may be specified,
in which case separate lags and frequencies are produced for each 
value of the BY variables.

=head1 Usage

One event variable must be specified with the C<VAR=> option.  All other 
options have default values.  If one or more C<BY=> variables are specified,
lags and frequencies are calculated separately for each combination of
values of the C<BY=> variable(s).

The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example:

  %lags(data=codes, var=event, nlag=2)

=head1 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the SAS dataset to be lagged.  If C<DATA=> is not
specified, the most recently created data set is used.

=item VAR=

The name of the event variable to be lagged.  The variable may
be either character or numeric.

=item BY=

The name of one or more BY variables.  Lags will be restarted
for each level of the BY variable(s).  The BY variables may
be character or numeric.

=item VARFMT=

An optional format for the event C<VAR=> variable.  If the codes
are numeric, and a format specifying what each number means
is used (e.g., 1='Active' 2='Passive'), the output lag variables
will be given the character values. 

=item NLAG=

Number of lags to compute.  Default = 1.

=item OUTLAG=

Name of the output dataset containing the lagged variables.  This
dataset contains the original variables plus the lagged variables,
named according to the C<PREFIX=> option.

=item PREFIX=

Prefix for the name of the created lag variables.  The default
is C<PREFIX=_LAG>, so the variables created are named _LAG1, _LAG2,
..., up to _LAG&nlag.  For convenience, a copy of the event
variable is created as _LAG0.

=item FREQOPT=

Options for the TABLES statement used in PROC FREQ for the
frequencies of each of lag1-lagN vs lag0 (the event variable).
The default is C<C<FREQOPT=> NOROW> NOCOL NOPERCENT CHISQ.

=back 4

Arguments pertaining to the n-way frequency table:

=over 4

=item OUTFREQ=

Name of the output dataset containing the n-way frequency
table.  The table is not produced if this argument is not
specified.

=item COMPLETE=

NO, or ALL specifies whether the n-way frequency table
is to be made 'complete', by filling in 0 frequencies for
lag combinations which do not occur in the data.


=back 4

=head1 Example

Assume a series of 16 events have been coded with the 3 codes, a, b, c,
for 2 subjects as follows:

 Sub1:   c   a   a   b   a   c   a   c   b   b   a   b   a   a   b   c
 Sub2:   c   c   b   b   a   c   a   c   c   a   c   b   c   b   c   c

and these have been entered as the 2 variables SEQ (subject) and CODE
in the dataset CODES:

        SEQ    CODE

        1      c
        1      a
        1      a
        1      b
        ....
        2      c
        2      c
        2      b
        2      b
        ....

Then the macro call:

   %lags(data=codes, var=code, by=seq, outfreq=freq);

produces the lags dataset _lags_ for C<NLAG=1> that looks like this:

  SEQ    CODE    _LAG0    _LAG1

   1      c        c         
          a        a        c
          a        a        a
          b        b        a
          a        a        b
          ....

   2      c        c         
          c        c        c
          b        b        c
          b        b        b
          a        a        b
           ....

The output 2-way frequency table (outfreq=freq) looks liks this:

  SEQ    _LAG0    _LAG1    COUNT

   1       a        a        2
           b        a        3
           c        a        2
           a        b        3
           b        b        1
           c        b        1
           a        c        2
           b        c        1
           c        c        0

   2       a        a        0
           b        a        0
           c        a        3
           a        b        1
           b        b        1
           c        b        2
           a        c        2
           b        c        3
           c        c        3

