=head1 Description

The LINES macro creates an annotate data set to draw lines in a 2D or 3D
scatterplot.  This is useful when you need to plot two variables (e.g,
observed, predicted) against a common X, with separate curves for the
levels of a class variable.  In PROC GPLOT, for example, you cannot do

   proc gplot;
      plot (obs fit) * X = group;

However, you can add the fitted lines to a plot of obs*X:

  %lines(x=X, y=fit, class=group, out=_lines_);
   proc gplot;
      plot obs * X = group / anno=_lines_;

If no C<CLASS=> variable is specified, one set of lines is drawn to connect
the X,Y[,Z] points in their order in the input data set.  If a C<CLASS=> variable
is specified, one set of such lines is drawn for each level of the C<CLASS=>
variable.

=head1 Usage

The LINES macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %lines();

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item X=

The name of the X variable for the plot

=item Y=

The name of the Y variable for the plot

=item Z=

The name of the Z variable for a G3D plot (optional)

=item BY=

BY variable(s), used to produce multiple plots for each level
             of the C<BY=> variables.

=item CLASS=

CLASS variable, used to produce multiple lines within a given
             plot.

=item SYS=

XSYS & YSYS value [Default: C<SYS=2>]

=item COLOR=

Colors used for the levels of the C<CLASS=> variable.
             [Default: C<COLOR=BLUE RED GREEN BLACK PURPLE YELLOW BROWN ORANGE>]

=item LINE=

List of line styles used for the levels of the C<CLASS=> variable.
             [Default: C<LINE=1 3 5 8 20 22 25 34>]

=item SIZE=

Line thickness [Default: C<SIZE=1>]

=item SUBSET=

Expression to select points [Default: C<SUBSET=1>]

=item COPY=

List of variables copied to output dataset

=item IN=

Optional input annotate data set, concatenated to the output
             data set

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=_LINES_>]



=back 4

