=head1 Description

For a binary response variable, Y, taking values 0 or 1, and a
continuous independent variable, X, the LOGODDS macro groups the
X variable into some number of ordered, non-overlapping intervals.
It plots the empirical log-odds of C<Y=1> (and/or Pr{C<Y=1>}) against
X for each interval of X, together with the fitted linear logistic
relation, an optional smoothed curve (using the LOWESS macro),
and the observed binary responses.


=head1 Usage

The input data to be plotted must be in case form.
The LOGODDS macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<X=> and C<Y=>
variables are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %include catdata(icu);
  %logodds(data=icu, x=age, y=died, smooth=0.25, ncat=16,
     options=order=data);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item X=

Name of the continuous independent variable

=item Y=

Name of the binary response variable

=item EVENT=

Value of Y for the event of interest [Default: C<EVENT=1>]

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item OPTIONS=

Options for PROC LOGISTIC, for example, C<OPTIONS=DESCENDING>.

=item NCAT=

Number of categories of the X variable.
For example, if deciles of X are desired, use C<NCAT=10>.
[Default: C<NCAT=10>]

=item PLOT=

Scale(s) for the response. C<PLOT=LOGIT> gives a plot on the
logit scale, C<PLOT=PROB> on the probability scale.
[Default: C<PLOT=LOGIT PROB>]

=item SMOOTH=

Smoothing parameter for a lowess smooth, in the interval
(0-1).  No smooth curve is produced unless a C<SMOOTH=>
value is specified.  

=item SHOW=

Specifies whether to plot the binary observations.
[Default: C<SHOW=OBS>]

=item OBS=

Specifies how to display the binary observations.  If
C<OBS=STACK>, the observations are plotted in vertical
columns at the top (C<Y=1>) or bottom (C<Y=0>) of the plot.
If C<OBS=JITTER> a small random quantity is added (C<Y=0>)
or subtracted (C<Y=1>) to the Y value.  [Default: C<OBS=STACK>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=LOGODDS>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphic catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4
