=head1 Description

The MAP2GEN macro reads a SAS/Graph map data set and writes the
polygons in ArcView Generate format. This is a commonly used input
format for various cartographic programs, but the details often
matter.

=head2 Method

Generate map files can be in either 'line' format (a simple list of
line segments, usually forming polygons for geographic regions),
or 'polygon' format (similar, except the ID line for each region
also contains the (x,y) coordinates of the polygon center and the
region label.

Line format files can be written as shown below, from any SAS/Graph
map.  Some programs that read such files require that the polygons
be closed, so that the last X,Y pair is the same as the first X,Y
pair; use C<CLOSE=1> if so.

 id1
 x-coord,y-coord
 x-coord,y-coord
 ...
 end
 id2
 x-coord,y-coord
 x-coord,y-coord
 ...
 end
 end

Polygon format files are similar, except that the first line for each
region also contains the X,Y coordinates of a center point in the polygon
used for labeling.  In this case, a separate MAP2= data set is required,
and is merged with the C<MAP=> data set.

 id1,x-coord-label,y-coord-label,idlabel
 x-coord,y-coord
 x-coord,y-coord
 ...
 end
 id2,x-coord-label,y-coord-label,idlabel
 x-coord,y-coord
 ...
 end
 end


=head1 Usage

The MAP2GEN macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %map2gen(map=maps.us);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item MAP=

The (libname.)name of the map to be converted

=item MAP2=

Data set containing polygon centers and ID labels when
C<TYPE=POLY>.

=item ID=

The name of an observation ID variable [Default: C<ID=ID>]

=item X=

Name of X (longitude) variable in MAP and MAP2 [Default: C<X=X>]

=item Y=

Name of Y (latitude) variable in MAP and MAP2 [Default: C<Y=Y>]

=item IDLABEL=

Label variable for region ID in the MAP2 data set, typically
             the name of the region.

=item DLM=

Field delimiter used in writing output records. Use 
C<DLM=%STR(,)> for comma delimited. [Default: C<DLM=%STR( )>]

=item PRE=

Prefix string for each x,y line [Default: C<PRE=%STR()>]

=item CLOSE=

Close each polygon?  A non-zero value causes the first
             X,Y pair to be repeated at the end of each polygon.
             [Default: C<CLOSE=1>]

=item TYPE=

Line or polygon style? [Default: C<TYPE=LINE>]

=item XYFORMAT=

Format for writing X,Y values [Default: C<XYFORMAT=BEST9.>]

=item OUTFILE=

The name of the output file. You can specify a
file path, or the output will be written to the
working directory. [Default: OUTFILE=&MAP.GEN]


=back 4

=head1 Example

 %map2gen(
   map=mymaps.gfrance,
   map2=mymaps.gfrance2,
   id=dept,
   idlabel=department,
   type=poly
   );

The output is written to GFRANCE.GEN.

