=head1 Description

The MIPLOT macro plots X-Y data with indicators for missing
observations, and is useful for seeing whether the pattern of missing
data appears systematic or random with respect to the X, Y variables.
The C<TYPE=MARGINAL> plot simply shows observations with missing X, Y,
or both by marginal symbols along the axes.  The C<TYPE=IMPUTED> plot
requires an imputed data set from PROC MI, and plots error bars (when
one of X,Y is missing) and diamonds (when both X and Y are missing)
showing the variation of imputed values for missing data.

=head1 Usage

The MIPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<X=>, C<Y=> and
C<DATA=> parameters must be specified. An C<ID=> variable is required for the
C<TYPE=IMPUTED> plot.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

   proc mi data=mydata  out=mymi nimpute=10;
       var ...;
       run;
  %miplot(data=mydata, imputed=mymi, ...);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input data set

=item IMPUTED=

Name of data set containing imputations [Default: C<IMPUTED=_LAST_>]

=item X=

Name of the X variable

=item Y=

Name of the Y variable

=item ID=

Observation ID variable

=item TYPE=

Plot type: MARGINAL or IMPUTED.  The default is C<TYPE=IMPUTED> if
             an C<IMPUTED=> data set is specified; otherwise MARGINAL.

=item LOC=

Central value used for imputed values in the C<TYPE=IMPUTED> plot:
             MEAN or MEDIAN [Default: C<LOC=MEAN>]

=item STD=

Length of error bars for imputed values in the C<TYPE=IMPUTED> plot: 
            STD or STDERR [Default: C<STD=STDERR>]

=item MULT=

Multiple of error bar length [Default: C<MULT=1>]

=item AT=

Percent location on the missing axis used to plot a point in the
             C<TYPE=MARGINAL> plot [Default: C<AT=1>]

=item JITTER=

Amount to jitter the percent location for a missing point in the
             C<TYPE=MARGINAL> plot [Default: C<JITTER=1>]

=item SYMBOLS=

Plot symbol for non-missing and missing observations
             [Default: C<SYMBOLS=DOT CIRCLE>]

=item COLORS=

Symbol colors for non-missing and missing [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED>]

=item SIZE=

Symbol size(s) for non-missing and missing [Default: C<SIZE=1>]

=item INTERP=

Plot interpolation option [Default: C<INTERP=NONE>]

=item COPY=

Variables to copy to output data set

=item VAXIS=

AXIS statement for vertical axis

=item HAXIS=

AXIS statement for horizontal axis

=item ANNO=

Additional annotate data set to be added to the plot

=item OUT=

Name of output annotate data set [Default: C<OUT=MISSANNO>]

=item OUTSTAT=

Name of output statistics data set when C<TYPE=IMPUTED>
             [Default: C<OUTSTST=_STATS_>]

=item NAME=

Name for graphics catalog entry [Default: C<OUT=M>iplot]


=back 4

