=head1 Description

The MOSAIC macro provides an easily used macro interface to the
MOSAICS, MOSAICD and MOSPART SAS/IML programs.  Using the
SAS/IML programs directly means that you must compose a PROC IML
step and invoke the mosaic module (or mospart, for partial mosaics).

The MOSAIC macro may be used with any SAS data set in frequency
form (e.g., the output from PROC FREQ).  The macro simply creates
the PROC IML step, reads the input data set, and runs the either
the mosaic module, the mosaicd module, or the mospart module,
depending on the options specified.  If your data is in case form,
just use PROC FREQ first to construct the contingency table.

Ordinarily, the program fits a model (specified by the C<FITTYPE=>
parameter) and displays residuals from this model in the mosaic
for each marginal subtable specified by the C<PLOTS=> parameter.
However, if you have already fit a model and calculated residuals
some other way (e.g., using PROC CATMOD or PROC GENMOD), specify
a C<RESID=> variable in the macro call.  The macro will then call
the mosaicd module.

If a C<BY=> variable is specified, the macro produces one (partial)
mosaic plot for each level of the BY variable(s).

=head1 Usage

The parameters for the mosaic macro are like those of the SAS/IML
program, except:

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input dataset.  The data set
should contain one observation per cell, the variables
listed in C<VAR=> and COUNT=, and possibly C<RESID=> and C<BY=>.

=item VAR=

Specifies the names of the factor variables for the 
contingency table. Abbreviated variable lists (e.g., C<V1-V3>) 
are not allowed. The levels of the factor variables may be
character or numeric, but are used `as is' in the input data.
You may omit the C<VAR=> variables if variable names are used in
the C<VORDER=> parameter.

=item BY=

Specifies the names of one (or more) By variables.  Partial
mosaic plots are produced for each combination of the levels
of the C<BY=> variables.  The C<BY=> variable(s) *must* be listed among
the C<VAR=> variables.

=item COUNT=

Specifies the names of the frequency variable in the dataset

=item CONFIG=

For a user-specified model, C<CONFIG=> gives the terms in the
model, separated by '/'.  For example, to fit the model of
no-three-way association, specify 

	config=1 2 / 1 3 / 2 3
	
or (using variable names) 

	config = A B / A C / B C

Note that the numbers refer to the variables after they
have been reordered, either sorting the data set, or by the
C<VORDER=> parameter.

=item VORDER=

Specifies either the names of the variables or their indices
in the desired order in the mosaic.  Note that the using the
VORDER parameter keeps the factor levels in their order in
the input data set.

=item SORT=

Specifies whether and how the input data set is to be sorted
to produce the desired order of variables in the mosaic.
C<SORT=YES >sorts the data in the reverse order that they are
listed in the C<VAR=> paraemter, so that the variables are 
entered in the order given in the C<VAR=> parameter.  Otherwise,
C<SORT=> lists the variable names, possibly with the DESENDING
or NOTSORTED options in the reverse of the desired order.
e.g., C<SORT=C DESCENDING B DESCENDING A>.  The default is
C<SORT=YES>, unless C<VORDER=> has been specified.

=item RESID=

Specifies that a model has already been fit and that externally
calculated residuals are contained in the variable named 
by the C<RESID=> parameter.

=back 4
