=head1 Description

The MOSMAT macro provides an easily used macro interface to the
MOSAICS and MOSMAT SAS/IML programs, to create a scatterplot
matrix of mosaic displays for all pairs of categorical variables.

Each pairwise plot shows the marginal frequencies to the order specified
by the C<PLOTS=> parameter.  When C<PLOTS=2>, these are the bivariate margins,
and the residuals from marginal independence are shown by shading.
When C<PLOTS E<gt>2>, the observed frequencies in a higher-order marginal
table are displayed, and the model fit to that marginal table is
determined by the C<FITTYPE=> parameter.

=head1 Usage

The parameters for the mosaic macro are like those of the SAS/IML
programs, except:

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of the input dataset.  Should contain
one observation per cell, the variables listed in C<VAR=>
and C<COUNT=>.  [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Specifies the names of the factor variables for the 
contingency table. Abbreviated variable lists (e.g., C<V1-V3>) 
are not allowed. The levels of the factor variables may be
character or numeric, but are used as is in the input data.
Upper/lower case in the variable names is respected in the
diagonal label panels.
You may omit the C<VAR=> variables if variable names are used in
the C<VORDER=> parameter.

=item COUNT=

Specifies the name of the frequency variable in the dataset.
The C<COUNT=> variable must be specified.

=item PLOTS=

The C<PLOTS=> parameter determines the number of table variables
displayed in each pairwise mosaic. [Default: C<PLOTS=2>]

=item CONFIG=

For a user-specified model, config= gives the terms in the
model, separated by '/'.  For example, to fit the model of
no-three-way association, specify C<CONFIG=1 2 / 1 3 / 2 3>,
or (using variable names) C<CONFIG = A B / A C / B C>.
Note that the numbers refer to the variables after they
have been reordered, either sorting the data set, or by the
C<VORDER=> parameter.

=item VORDER=

Specifies either the names of the variables or their indices
in the desired order in the mosaic.  Note that the using the
C<VORDER=> parameter keeps the factor levels in their order in
the data.

=item SORT=

Specifies whether and how the input data set is to be sorted
to produce the desired order of variables in the mosaic.
C<SORT=YES >sorts the data in the reverse order that they are
listed in the C<VAR=> paraemter, so that the variables are 
entered in the order given in the C<VAR=> parameter.  Otherwise,
C<SORT=> lists the variable names, possibly with the DESENDING
or NOTSORTED options in the reverse of the desired order.
e.g., C<SORT=C DESCENDING B DESCENDING A>.

=back 4

