=head1 Description

The MVINFLUENCE macro calculates and plots measures of influence in a
multivariate regression model.  These are generalizations of the usual
influence measures for univariate regression described by Barrett &
Ling (1992).  This is an initial, experimental implementation designed
to explore thiese methods.

Three types of plots are provided (controlled by the C<PLOTS=> argument) 

COOKD: scatterplot of generalized Cook's D against generalized leverage
STRES: bubble plot of generalized squared studentized residual against generalized leverage using Cook's D as bubble size
LR:    bubble plot of log residual factor against log leverage factor using Cook's D as bubble size 

=head1 Usage

The MVINFLUENCE macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %mvinfluence(data=rohwer, x=n s ns na ss, y=SAT PPVT Raven)

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

Names of response variables

=item X=

Names of predictor variables

=item ID=

The name of an observation ID variable

=item BUBBLE=

Bubble proportional to: COOKD.  No other choices in this implementation [Default: C<BUBBLE=COOKD>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=COOKD>]

=item PRINT=

Print the C<OUT=> data set? Not yet implemented. [Default: C<PRINT=NONE>]

=item PLOTS=

Which plots to produce? NONE, ALL, or one or more of COOK, STRES, LR [Default: C<PLOTS=ALL>]

=item LABEL=

Points to label: ALL, NONE, or INFL [Default: C<LABEL=INFL>]

=item INFL=

Criteria for influential [Default: INFL=%STR(((HAT>&HCRIT)|COOKD>.5))]

=item LSIZE=

Obs label size.  The height of other text is controlled by the C<HTEXT=> goption [Default: C<LSIZE=1.6>]

=item LCOLOR=

Obs label color [Default: C<LCOLOR=BLACK>]

=item LPOS=

Obs label position [Default: C<LPOS=5>]

=item LFONT=

Obs label font

=item BSIZE=

Bubble size scale factor [Default: C<BSIZE=10>]

=item BSCALE=

Bubble size proportional to AREA or RADIUS [Default: C<BSCALE=AREA>]

=item BCOLOR=

Bubble color [Default: C<BCOLOR=RED>]

=item BFILL=

Bubble fill? SOLID or GRADIENT

=item REFCOL=

Color of reference lines [Default: C<REFCOL=BLACK>]

=item REFLIN=

Line style for reference lines; 0->NONE [Default: C<REFLIN=33>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=MVINFL>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog


=back 4

=head2 Dependencies

%labels
%gskip


=head1 References

* Barrett, B. E. & Ling, R. F. (1992). General classes of influence measures for multivariate
regression, I<JASA>, 87, # 417, 184-191.

* Barrett, B. E. (2003): Understanding Influence in Multivariate Regression, I<Communications in Statistics
- Theory and Methods>, 32:3, 667-680

* Some code from Timm & Mieczkowski, Univariate and Multivariate General Linear Models,
http://ftp.sas.com/samples/A55809, Program 5_6.sas, was used in the initial implementation.                      



=head1 Examples

  %include data(rohwer);
  data rohwer;
     set rohwer;
     where group=2;
     drop subjno;
     case = _n_;
  %include macros(mvinfluence);
  %mvinfluence(data=rohwer, x=n s ns na ss, y=SAT PPVT Raven, id=case,
  bfill=gradient, plots=ALL);


