=head1 Description

The MVNORMAL macro generates random samples from multivariate normal
distributions with a specified covariance matrix and one or more
specified mean vectors.

=head2 Method

The macro uses the CALL VNORMAL routine in SAS/IML to generate the
samples.  

=head1 Usage

The MVNORMAL macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %mvnormal(data=mycorr, var=X1 X2 X3 X4);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set containing either correlations
             (and standard deviations)  or variances and covariances, as
             specified by the C<TYPE=> parameter.  This must be in a form
             similar to that produced by PROC CORR with the C<OUTP=> 
             option, and possibly the COV option as well.  For a correlation
              matrix, this will contain correlations
             (C<_TYPE_='CORR'>) and standard deviations (C<_TYPE_='STD'>);
             a covariance matrix will contain observations of C<_TYPE_='COV'.>

=item VAR=

A list of names of variables to be generated.  Mut be an explicit
             list of blank-separated names, rather than an abbreviated list
             like X1-X5.

=item TYPE=

Type of input data set: CORR or COV. [Default: C<TYPE=COV>]

=item MEANS=

Name of an input dataset containing mean vector(s) for the
             C<VAR=> variables.  One group of N obsrvations is generated for
             each observation in the C<MEANS=> dataset.

=item CLASS=

Name of class/group variable in means data set.  The C<MEANS=>
             dataset should contain one observation for each group.

=item N=

Sample size (for each group). [Default: C<N=10>]

=item SEED=

Seed for random number generator.  If not specified, the
             time of day is used as the seed.

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=SAMPLE>]


=back 4

=head1 Example

 *-- common correlation matrix for all groups;
 data corr;
  _typeC<_ = 'CORR'>;
  input _type_ _name_ $ X1 X2 X3;
 cards;
 CORR  X1    1    .5   .3
 CORR  X2   .5     1   .2
 CORR  X3   .3    .2    1
 STD    .   10     5    7
 ;
 data means;
  input gp group $  _type_ $  X1 X2 X3;
 cards;
 1  A  MEAN   10  10  10
 2  B  MEAN   20  20  20
 3  C  MEAN   30  30  30

 %mvnormal(data=corr, type=CORR, var=X1 X2 X3
  ,means=means
  ,class=group
  );


=back 4

