=head1 Description

The NQPLOT macro produces normal Q-Q plots for single variable, with
optional confidence bands and a detrended version.  The
parameters C<MU=> and C<SIGMA=> determine how the comparison line,
representing a perfect fit to a normal distribution, is estimated.

=head1 Usage

The NQPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=> parameter
must be specified.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %nqplot(data=baseball, var=salary);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Variable to be plotted [Default: C<VAR=X>]

=item OUT=

Name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=NQPLOT>]

=item MU=

Estimate of the mean of the reference normal distribution. 
            Specify C<MU=MEAN>, C<MU=MEDIAN>, or MU=numeric value
            [Default: C<MU=MEDIAN>]

=item SIGMA=

Estimate of the standard deviation of the reference normal 
             distribution: Specify C<SIGMA=STD>, C<SIGMA=HSPR>, or SIGMA=numeric value.
             [Default: C<SIGMA=HSPR>]


=item STDERR=

Plot std errors around curves? [Default: C<STDERR=YES>]

=item DETREND=

Plot detrended version?   If C<DETREND=YES>the detrended version is plotted too.
         [Default: C<DETREND=YES>]

=item LH=

Height, in character cells, for axis labels [Default: C<LH=1.5>]

=item ANNO=

Name(s) of optional input annotate data set(s).

=item COLORS=

Colors for points, reference line, and confidence bands [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK BLUE RED>]

=item SYMBOL=

Plotting symbol [Default: C<SYMBOL=DOT>]

=item NAME=

Name of graphic catalog entries [Default: C<NAME=NQPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog


=back 4

