=head1 Description

For ANOVA models with quantitative factor variables, it is most useful
to describe and analyse the factor effects using tests for linear,
quadratic, etc. effects.  These tests could be carried out with a
regression model, but orthogonal polynomial contrasts provide a
way to do the same tests, in an ANOVA framework with PROC GLM (or PROC
MIXED).  But, you need to find the appropriate contrast coefficients.

The ORPOLY macro finds contrast coefficients for orthogonal polynomials
for testing a quantitative factor variable, and constructs CONTRAST
(or ESTIMATE) statements (for use with PROC GLM or PROC MIXED) using 
these values.

This is most useful when either (a) the factor levels are unequally
spaced (Trials=1 2 4 10), or (b) the sample sizes at the different levels
are unequal.  In these cases, the 'standard' orthogonal polynomial
coefficients cannot be used.  The ORPOLY macro uses the SAS/IML
orpoly() function to find the correct values, and to construct the
required CONTRAST (or ESTIMATE) statements.

When the factor levels are equally spaced, *and* sample sizes are
equal, the POLY macro provides a simpler way to generate the contrast
coefficients, and the associated INTER macro generates contrasts for
interactions among the polynomial contrasts.

=head1 Usage

The ORPOLY macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=> parameter
must be specified.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %orpoly(var=A, file=temp);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

The name(s) of quantitative factor variable(s) for orthogonal 
polynomial contrasts.

=item DEG=

Maximum degree of orthogonal polynomial contrasts

=item FILE=

Fileref for contrast statements.  The default,
C<FILE=PRINT>, simply prints the generated statements
in the listing file.  

To use the generated contrast statements directly following
a PROC GLM step, use the C<FILE=> parameter to assign a fileref
and create temporary file, which may be used in a GLM step.

=item TYPE=

Type of statement generated: CONTRAST, ESTIMATE, or BOTH
[Default: C<TYPE=CONTRAST>]                


=back 4

=head1 Example

Generate some data, with linear & quad A effects, linear B.
Levels of B are unequally spaced;

  data testit;
     do a=1 to 5;
        do b=1, 5, 9, 13;
           do obs=1 to 2;
              y = a + a*a + b + 5*normal(124241);
              output;
              end;
           end;
        end;
  run;

Generate the CONTRAST statements with ORPOLY, and %INCLUDE in the GLM step:

  %orpoly(data=testit, var=a b, file=poly);

  proc glm data=testit;
     class a b;
     model y=a b a*b;
     %include poly;

The ORPOLY macro generates the following lines, which are used in the
PROC GLM step as a result of the %include statement:

  contrast "A-lin" A -0.22361 -0.11180 -0.00000  0.11180  0.22361;
  contrast "A-quad" A  0.18898 -0.09449 -0.18898 -0.09449  0.18898;
  contrast "A-3rd" A -0.11180  0.22361  0.00000 -0.22361  0.11180;

  contrast "B-lin" B -0.21213 -0.07071  0.07071  0.21213;
  contrast "B-quad" B  0.15811 -0.15811 -0.15811  0.15811;

=head1 Bugs:

For some strange reason, PROC GLM considers the contrasts non-estimable.
It does the proper tests when the sample sizes are equal, but not when
they differ.

