=head1 Description

The OUTLIER macro calculates robust Mahalanobis distances for each
observation in a data set.  The results are robust in that potential
outliers do not contribute to the distance of any other observations. For
a multivariate normal sample, the points will lie on a straight line of
unit slope; outliers will have squared distances well above the line.
A high-resolution plot of the distances against chi-square quantitles
is produced, optionally using the CQPLOT macro, that provides confidence
bands as well.

The macro makes one or more passes through the data.  Each pass
assigns 0 weight to observations whose DSQ value has 
Prob  ( chi-square ) < PVALUE.  The number of
passes should be determined empirically so that no new observations
are trimmed on the last step, but typically two passes are sufficient
to avoid the impact of outliers.

=head1 Usage

The OUTLIER macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %outlier(data=auto, id=model);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input data set to analyze [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of input variables. You may use any of the standard
             SAS abbreviations, e.g., C<VAR=X1-X10>. [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item ID=

Name of an ID variable for observations

=item OUT=

Output dataset for plotting [Default: C<OUT=CHIPLOT>]

=item PVALUE=

The pvalue for the chi-square, used to determine when an
             observation is given a weight=0 [Default: C<PVALUE=.05>]

=item PASSES=

Number of passes of multivariate trimming [Default: C<PASSES=2>]

=item PRINT=

Print the C<OUT=> data set? [Default: C<PRINT=YES>]

=item PPLOT=

Produce printer plot? [Default: C<PPLOT=NO>]

=item GPLOT=

Produce graphics plot? [Default: C<GPLOT=YES>]

=item SYMBOL=

Point symbol [Default: C<SYMBOL=DOT>]

=item USECQPLT=

Use the CQPLOT macro to do the plot? [Default: C<USECQPLT=Y>]

=item NAME=

Name for graphic catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=OUTLIER>]

=item GOUT=

name for graphic catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]



=back 4

