=head1 Description

The PANELS macro constructs a template in which to replay a series of
graphs, assumed all the same size, in a rectangular array of R
rows and C columns. By default, the panels are displayed
left-to-right across rows,  starting either from the top
(C<ORDER=DOWN>) or bottom (C<ORDER=UP>).  If the number of rows and
columns are unequal, the aspect ratio of individual panels can
be maintained by setting equate=Y.  It is assumed that all the
plots have already been created, and stored in a graphics catalog
(the default, WORK.GSEG is used automatically by SAS/GRAPH
procedures).

For interactive use within the SAS Session Manager you should be
aware that all plots are stored cumulatively in the graphics
catalog throughout your session, unless explicitly changed with
the C<GOUT=> option in graphics procedures or macros  To create multiple
panelled plots you can use the C<FIRST=> and C<LAST=> parameters or a C<REPLAY=>
list to specify which plots are used in a given call.

=head1 Usage

Call the PANELS macro after the steps which create the graphs in the
graphics catalog.  The GDISPLA macro may be used to suppress the
display of the original full-sized graphs.
The C<ROWS=> and C<COLS=> parameters must be specified.

  goptions hsize=7in vsize=5in;
  %gdispla(OFF);
  proc gplot data=mydata;
     plot y * x = group;
     by sex;

  %gdispla(ON);
  %panels(rows=1, cols=2);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item ROWS=

=item COLS=

The C<ROWS=> and C<COLS=> arguments are required, and specify the
  size of the array of plots to be displayed. These are the only
  required arguments.

=item PLOTS=

If there are fewer than &ROWS*&COLS plots, specify the number
  as the C<PLOTS=> argument. Optionally, there can be an additional
  plot, which is displayed (as a GSLIDE title, for example) in
  the top nn% of the display, as specified by the C<TOP=> argument.

=item TOP=

If TOP=nn is specified, the top nn% of the display is reserved
  for one additional panel, to serve as the plot
  title or annotation. The other panels are replayed in the bottom
  100-&top percent of the display. The vertical size of the top panel is 
  determined by the C<TOPHEIGHT=> argument.  

=item TOPNAME=

Specifies the plot name or number of the graph to be used as the
  top panel.  If not specified, the macro uses the next graph after
  the last one from the GIN catalog used in filling the replay list,
  i.e., %eval(&last+&plots-1). 

=item TOPHEIGHT=

Specifies the vertical size of the panel used to replay the top
  panel.  If you use PROC GSLIDE to create an overall title for the
  graph, use the default C<TOPHEIGHT=100>.  If you want to use a graph
  rescaled to fit entirely within the top panel (i.e., with
  TOPHEIGHT=&TOP), that graph should be created with an aspect ratio
  to match the shape of the desired top panel; otherwise it will be
  deformed to fit.

=item ORDER=

The C<ORDER=> argument specifies the order of the panels in the
  C<REPLAY=> list, when C<REPLAY=> is not specified. 
  Typically, the panels are displayed across the columns, starting
  in the top row.
  C<ORDER=UP> means that the panels in the bottom row are
  are drawn first, and numbered 1, 2, ..., &COLs. C<ORDER=DOWN> means
  that the panels in the top row are drawn first, numbered 1, 2, ..., 
  &COLs.  If you add the keyword BYROWS to ORDER=, the panels are
  displayed up or down the rows.  For example, when C<ROWS=3>, C<COLS=5>,
  C<ORDER=DOWN BYROWS> generates the C<REPLAY=> list as,

      replay=1:1  2:4  3:7  4:10  5:13
             6:2  7:5  8:8  9:11 10:14
            11:3 12:6 13:9 14:12 15:15

=item EQUATE=

The C<EQUATE=> argument determines if the size of the panels is adjusted
  so that the aspect ratio of the plots is preserved.  If C<EQUATE=Y>,
  the size of each plot is adjusted to the maximum of &ROWS and &COLS.
  This is usually desired, as long as the graphic options HSIZE and
  VSIZE are the same when the plots are replayed in the panels
  template as when they were originally generated.  The default is
  C<EQUATE=Y.>

=item REPLAY=

The C<REPLAY=> argument specifies the list of plots to be replayed
  in the constructed template, in one of the forms used with the
  PROC GREPLAY REPLAY statement, for example, C<REPLAY=1>:1 2:3 3:2
  4:4 or C<REPLAY=1>:plot1 2:plot3 3:plot2 4:plot4.  If C<TOP=> is used
  for a top panel, that graph should be replayed in panel 0.

=item TEMPLATE=

The name of the template constructed to display the plots. The
  default is C<TEMPLATE=PANEL>&ROWS.&COLS.

=item TC=

The name of the template catalog used to store the template.
  You may use a two-part SAS data set name to save the template
  permanently.

=item FIRST=

By default, the C<REPLAY=> argument is constructed to replay plot
i in panel i.  If the C<REPLAY=> argument is not specified, you can
override this default assignment by specifying C<FIRST=> the sequential
number of the first graph in the graphics catalog to plot (default:
FIRST=1), where:                       

=over 4

=item >0

A positive integer means the absolute number of the first graph in the input catalog to be
replayed.  For example, C<FIRST=3> starts with the third graph.
      
=item <1 

An integer less than 1 means the number of first graph relative to last
graph in the input catalog (i.e. C<FIRST=0> means 
last graph only, C<FIRST=-1> means the first is the one before last, etc.) 

=back 4

=item LAST=

The C<LAST=> parameter may be used to specify the number of the last graph
in the input graphics catalog to be replayed.  The default is LAST=0,
which refers to the last plot in the graphics catalog.  The C<LAST=> value
is interpreted as follows:

=over 4

=item >0

A positive integer means the absolute number of last graph in the input catalog to be
replayed.  For example, C<LAST=4> ends with the fourth graph.

=item <1 

An integer less than 1 means the number of last graph relative to last
graph in the input catalog (i.e. C<LAST=0> means 
last graph only, C<LAST=-1> means to end with the one before last, etc.) 

=back 4


=item SHAPE=

Ordinarily, the graphs are replayed in a rectangular template (C<SHAPE=RECT>),
  but for some applications graphs are generated as the lower or upper triangle
  of a square matrix, with or without the diagonal.  Specify C<SHAPE=>
  LOWTRI(D) or UPTRI(D) for these cases.

=item GIN=

GIN specifies the name of the input graphics catalog, from which the
  plots to be replayed are taken. The default is C<GIN=WORK.GSEG.>

=item GOUT=

GOUT= specifies the name of the graphics catalog in which the panelled
  plot is stored. The default is C<GOUT=WORK.GSEG.>


=back 4

=head1 Notes

To use PANELS within another macro (such as SCATMAT), it is best to generate
the individual graphs to a temporary graphics catalog rather than to the 
same catalog used for the replayed graphs.

The GREPLAY procedure does not allow a graph name to be assigned to the
graph generated by by a TREPLAY or REPLAY statement.


