=head1 Description

The points macro creates an annotate data set to draw point symbols
in a 2D or 3D scatterplot.  This is useful when you need to plot two
variables (e.g, observed, predicted) against a common X, with separate
curves for the levels of a class variable.  In PROC GPLOT, for example,
you cannot do

   proc gplot;
      plot (obs fit) * X = group;

However, you can add the OBS points to a plot of fit*X:

  %points(x=X, y=obs);
   proc gplot;
      plot fit * X = group / anno=_pts_;

=head1 Usage

The POINTS macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<X=> and C<Y=>
parameters are required.  For a plot with PROC G3D, you must also
give the C<Z=> variable.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. 

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item X=

The name of the X variable for the scatterplot

=item Y=

The name of the Y variable for the scatterplot

=item Z=

The name of the Z variable for a 3D scatterplot

=item BY=

The name(s) of any BY variable(s) to be used for multiple
plots.

=item CLASS=

The name of a class variable, to be used with PROC GPLOT
in the PLOT statement for multiple curves, in the form

	plot Y * X = CLASS;

=item SYS=

Specifies the Annotate XSYS & YSYS value [Default: C<SYS=2>]

=item COLOR=

Point color(s): the name of a dataset character variable,
or an expression which evaluates to a SAS/GRAPH color, or
string constant enclosed in quotes. [Default: C<COLOR='BLACK'>]

=item SYMBOL=

Point symbol(s): the name of a dataset character variable,
or an expression which evaluates to a SAS/GRAPH color, or
string constant enclosed in quotes.  [Default: C<SYMBOL='DOT'>]

=item SIZE=

The size of the symbol (in GUNIT units).  If not specified,
the global graphics option HTEXT value is used.

=item FONT=

Font for symbol(s): the name of a dataset character variable,
or an expression which evaluates to a SAS/GRAPH color, or
string constant enclosed in quotes.  Use for special
symbols, e.g., C<FONT='MARKER'.  I>f not specified, the
standard symbol font is used.

=item SUBSET=

An expression (which may involve any dataset variables) to
select points.  A point will be plotted if the expression 
evaluates to non-zero for the current observation.
[Default: C<SUBSET=1>]

=item COPY=

The names of any variables to be copied to output dataset

=item IN=

The name of an optional input annotate data set.  If
specified, the C<IN=> data set is concatenated with the
C<OUT=> data set.

=item OUT=

Name of the annotate data set produced. [Default: C<OUT=_PTS_>]

=back 4
