=head1 Description

The POISPLOT macro constructs a ``Poissonness plot'' for determining
if discrete data follows the Poisson distribution.  The plot has a
linear relation between the count metameter n(k) and the basic
count, k, when the distribution is Poisson.  An influence
plot displays the effect of each observed frequency on the choice of
the Poisson parameter, lambda.

=head1 Usage

The POISPLOT macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<COUNT=>
and C<FREQ=> parameters are required.  
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  data horskick;
     input deaths corpsyrs;
     label deaths='Number of Deaths'
        corpsyrs='Number of Corps-Years';
  cards;
        0    109
        1     65
        2     22
        3      3
        4      1
  ;
  %poisplot(count=Deaths,freq=corpsyrs, plot=dist);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item COUNT=

The name of the basic count variable

=item FREQ=

The name of the variable giving the number of occurrences
of COUNT.

=item LABEL=

Label for the horizontal (C<COUNT=>) variable.  If not specified
the variable label for the C<COUNT=> variable in the input
data set is used.

=item LAMBDA=

Trial value  of the Poisson parameter lambda to level the plot.
If C<LAMBDA=0 >(the default) the plot is not levelled.

=item Z=

Multiplier for error bars [Default: C<Z=1.96>]

=item PLOT=

What to plot: DIST and/or INFL [Default: C<PLOT=DIST INFL>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text labels [Default: C<HTEXT=1.4>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=POISPLOT>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graphics catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=POISPLT>]

=back 4
