=head1 Description

The POLY macro generates a polynomial contrast for use in a CONTRAST
statement with PROC GLM.  It assumes that the levels of the factor
are equally spaced and the sample size for the levels of the factor
are equal.  It returns the program text which should follow the
CONTRAST (or ESTIMATE) keyword.

=head1 Usage

The poly macro is called with positional parameters.
The arguments must be listed within parentheses, separated
by commas. For example: 

   contrast %poly(4,1,A);
yields:
   contrast "A-lin" A  -3  -1   1   3;

   %poly(4,1);
yields:
   -3  -1   1   3

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item LEVELS=

Specifies the number of levels of the factor.  The number
of levels must be between 2 and 10.

=item DEGREE=

Specifies the degree of the polynomial contrast. The degree
must be between 1 and min(9,levels-1).

=item FACTOR=

Specifies the name of the factor.  If the factor name is
not specified, the macro returns only the contrast coefficients.

=back 4

=head1 Description

The INTER macro generates a CONTRAST statement for the interaction
between two polynomial contrasts.

=head1 Usage

The INTER macro is called with positional parameters.
The arguments must be listed within parentheses, separated
by commas. For example: 

   contrast %inter(A, 2, 1, B, 3, 1);
yields:
   contrast "A-lin x B-lin" A*B  -1  0  1  1  0  -1;


=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item FAC1=

Specifies the name of the 1st factor.  

=item LEV1=

Specifies the number of levels of the 1st factor.  

=item DEG1=

Specifies the degree of the polynomial for factor 1. 

=item FAC2=

Specifies the name of the 2nd factor.  

=item LEV2=

Specifies the number of levels of the 2nd factor.  

=item DEG2=

Specifies the degree of the polynomial for factor 2. 

=back 4

