=head1 Description

The POWERLOG macro calculates sample size required to achived given
power values for a logistic regression model with one or more 
quantitative predictors.  Results are displayed as a table of
sample sizes required for a range of power values, and as a graph.

=head1 Usage

The POWERLOG macro is called with keyword parameters.  The arguments 
may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated by commas. 
You must supply either an input data set containing the 
variables P1, P2, ALPHA, POWER, and RSQ (one observation for each
combination for which power is desired), or the macro parameters
P1= and P2=.
For example: 

  %powerlog(p1=.08, p2=%str(.16, .24));

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Specifies the name of an input data set containing the 
variables P1, P2, ALPHA, POWER, and RSQ in all combinations
for which power is desired.  If an input C<DATA=> data set is
specified, the program ignores values for the P1=, P2=, ALPHA=, 
POWER=, and C<RSQ=> parameters.

=item P1=

is the estimated probability of the event at the mean value
of the quantitative predictor.

=item P2=

is the estimated probability of the event at an X-value equal
to the X-mean plus one standard deviation.
You may specify a list of values separated by commas, a
range of the form x TO y BY z, or a combination of these.
However, you must surround the P2= value with
%STR() if any commas appear in it.  For example,

	p2=.10 to .30 by .05
	p2=%str(.10, .13, .20)

=item ALPHA=

is the desired Type I error probability for a *one-sided* test
 of H0: beta(x) = 0

=item POWER=

is the desired power of the test.

=item RSQ=

is the squared multiple correlation of the predictor with all
other predictors.  Use C<RSQ=0> for a 1-predictor model.

=item PLOT=

is a specification for plotting the results.  The default
is C<PLOT=N * POWER=RSQ>.  No plots are produced if  C<PLOT=>  is
blank.

=item PLOTBY=

is another variable in the C<OUT=> data set

=item OUT=

Specifies the name of the output data set

=back 4

=head1 Example

Modelling the relation of the probability of heart disease
on X = cholesterol.  If previous studies suggest that heart disease
occurs with P1=0.08 at the mean level of cholesterol, what is the
sample size required to detect a 50% increase (P2 = 1.5*.08 = .12),
or an 87.5% increase (P2 = 1.875*.08 = .15) in the probability of
heart disease, when cholesterol increases by one standard deviation?

If age is another predictor, how does sample size vary with the RSQ
between cholesterol and age?

  %powerlog(p1=.08, p2=%str(.12, .15), rsq=%str(.2, .4) );

