=head1 Description

The POWER2X2 macro computes the power of a test comparing proportions
from two, equal-sized, independent samples.  Power is given for
various sizes of the total sample, or required sample size is given
for various power values, allowing you to pick the sample size that
achieves the desired power.                                                                      

=head1 Usage

The POWER2X2 macro takes 9 keyword arguments.  You must supply the
C<DIFF=> parameter.  By default the macro computes power for a range
of sample sizes (given by C<NMIN=> and C<NMAX=>).  Alternatively, you may
specify a range of power values (given by C<POWER=>) for which the
required sample size is calculated.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item P1=   

Specifies an estimate of the "success" rate in one
group, the baseline group. [Default: P1=.50]

=item DIFF=

Specifies the difference in the proportions that you 
want to detect.  This is the specification of the 
alternative hypothesis at which power is computed.
The difference MUST be specified; there is NO default.
You may specify a list of values separated by commas, a
range of the form C<x TO y BY z>, or a combination of these.
However, you must surround the C<DIFF=> value with
C<%STR()> if any commas appear in it.  For example,

	diff=.10 to .30 by .05
	diff=%str(.10, .13, .20)

=item ALPHA=

Specifies the significance level or size of the test. 
It is a decimal value less that 1.  
For example, C<ALPHA=.05> sets the probability of a Type
1 error at 0.05.  You may specify a single value, or
a list of values separated by commas, or a range of the
form C<x TO y by z>.  [Default: C<ALPHA=.05>]

=item POWER=

Values of power for sample size calculation.
You may specify a list of values separated by commas, a
range of the form C<x TO y BY z>, or a combination of these,
as in a C<DO> statement.
However, you must surround the C<POWER=> value with
C<%STR()> if any commas appear in it.

=item NMIN=    

Specifies the minimum total sample size at which power 
will be computed.  [Default: C<NMIN=10>]

=item NMAX=200   

Specifies the minimum total sample size at which power
will be computed.  [Default: C<NMAX=200>]
To get power for a single total sample size, set NMIN and
NMAX to half of the total sample size.

=item PLOT=

is a specification for plotting the results, in the form
C<Y * X> or C<Y * X = Z>, where X, Y, and Z may be any of the
variables N, DIFF, P2, POWER or OR.  No plots are produced 
if C<PLOT=>  is blank.  [Default: C<PLOT=POWER >* C<N=DIFF>]

=item PLOTBY=

is another variable in the C<OUT=> data set.  Separate plots are
drawn for each level of the C<PLOTBY=> variable.

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set. [Default: C<OUT=_POWER_>]


=back 4

=head1 Example

     %power2x2( p1=.6,  diff=.10 to .20 by .05,  nmin=50);

With the settings above, the expected baseline success rate is 60%.
Power for detecting a difference of 10-20% in the two proportions will
be computed for a .05 level test and for sample sizes ranging from
50 to 200.

=head1 Details

Hypotheses in the test are:                                          

       H0: p1 = p2                                                       
       Ha: p1 ne p2                                                      

where p1 and p2 are the success probabilities in the two
populations.  The Pearson chi-square statistic tests the null
hypothesis (H0) against the alternative hypothesis (Ha) and is
available in the FREQ procedure when the CHISQ option is specified
on the TABLES statement.

The power is the probability of rejecting H0 and is a function of
the true difference in proportions.  Power is often computed
assuming many different settings of the true proportions.  The type
2 error rate (denoted beta) is the probability of accepting H0 for
some non-zero true difference and is equal to 1-power.  The power
and beta are computed for a range of total sample sizes at a
particular alternative hypothesis that you specify.  It is assumed
that the total sample size will be split equally between the two
samples.

