=head1 Description

The RAM2DOT macro reads a RAM-list data set of the same format produced
by STR2RAM and other macros in the SEMPATH collection.  It uses this
information to write an external file of specifications for drawing a
directed graph representing a structural equation model using the 'dot' 
program.   

=head1 Usage

The RAM2DOT macro takes keyword arguments.  The C<VAR=> parameter value
must be supplied.  All others have default values, but the defaults
may not give you what you want.  Judicious use of the C<RANK=> option
often gives better results. Typically, the resulting .dot file requires
some hand-editing, or use of an interactive graphviz editor (dotty) for 
a more pleasing path diagram. 

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=_last_

Input RAM-list data set.  The data set is assumed to
contain the variables HEADS, FROM, TO (indices of
variables in the C<VAR=> list), _FROM_, and _TO_ 
(names of variables in the C<VAR=> list).  The names of
these variables may be changed with the TO=, FROM=,
C<TOVAR=> and C<FROMVAR=> parameters.  The defaults reflect
the output of other macros, e.g., STR2RAM.

=item VAR=

List of manifest and latent variables in the model.
The order of variable names in this list corresponds
to the indices used in the TO and FROM entries in
the RAM-list.  

Alternatively, if C<VAR=> is just a
single word, it is assumed to be the name of an
additional data set containing a VARNAME variable.
The values of this variable are stacked into a string
to create the C<VAR=> list.

=item FROM=from

Name of the from index variable in the input data
set.

=item TO=to

Name of the to index variable in the input data set.

=item FROMVAR=_from_

Name of the from name variable

=item TOVAR=_to_

Name of the to name variable

=item PARM=parm

Name of the parameter-name variable

=item VALUE=value

Name of the parmeter-value variable

* EDGE=parm value    What to use as the label on an edge: the
                    parameter name (if C<EDGE=> includes PARM), and
                    or the parameter value (if C<EDGE=> includes VALUE)

=item SIZE=%str(8,8)

Maximum size of the dot path diagram, in inches.

* C<NODEFONT=H>elvetica Font for nodes.  Standard PostScript fonts, e.g.,
                    'Times-Roman', 'Helvetica', etc. are portable

=item NODESIZE=16

Font size for the names of nodes (manifest and
                    latent variables), in points.

=item NODESTY=

Other node style parameters, e.g, 
                    NODESTY=style=filled color=yellow
                    will draw nodes filled in yellow.

=item EDGEFONT=Symbol

Font for edge labels.  The default, C<EDGEFONT=S>ymbol
                    is useful when the parameter names are composed of
                    single lower case roman characters optionally 
                    followed by subscripts, e.g., b1, b2, g, r12.  In
                    this case, the parameters appear as \beta1 ... \rho12.

=item EDGESIZE=12

Font size for edge labels, which represent parameters
                    in the model.

=item RANKDIR=LR

Draw LR (left to right) or TB (top to bottom)?

=item RANK=

List of variable 'ranks' for locating nodes, in the
form of one or more rank specifications separated by
'/'.  For example, the following says that x1 and x2,
y1 and y2, and F1 and F2 should have equal rank within
set, giving x1,x2 minimum rank, and y1,y2 maximum rank.

                         rank=min x1 x2/ max y1 y2/ same F1 F2

=item RUN=,

If non-blank, C<RUN=> specifies a system command to run
                    dot on the output .dot file.  By creating a .bat file,
                    or a shell script, you can pass options to dot and
                    or arrange for the resulting path diagram to be opened
                    in an appropriate viewer.

=item OUT=&data

Filename of the output .dot file (excluding the .dot
                    extension).


=back 4

=head1 References

 graphviz: L<http://www.graphviz.org>



