=head1 Description

The ROBCOV macro calculates robust estimates of the mean vector,
variance-covariance matrix and/or correlation matrix for a multivariate
sample.  It also calculates classical estimates of multivariate
(Mahalanobis) distance, and robust estimates of multivariate distance
which ignore potential outliers.  Optionally, it produces a plot of
robust vs. classical distances.

These results may be used both to detect multivariate outliers and
leverage points, and to provide robust versions of any multivariate
technique which depends on the covariance or correlation matrix,
simply by substituting the robust result for the classical ones.
Typical applications include regression, canonical correlation,
factor analysis, and structural equation models, when the input
may be supplied as a covariance (correlation) matrix, *or* when the
procedure ignores observations with C<WEIGHT=0 >to be excluded.

Two types of highly-robust estimators are provided: the minimum covariance
determinant (MCD) estimator, based on the fast-MCD algorithm of
Rousseeuw and Van Driessen (1999), and the minimum volume ellispoid (MVE)
estimator based on earlier work by Rousseeuw (1984).  MCD is defined
as minimizing the determinant of the covariance matrix computed on
h points, while MVE is defined as minimizing the volume of the 
p-dimensional ellipsoid containing h points.  

=head2 Method

The macro is essentially an easily-used interface to the SAS/IML
MCD and MVE call routines.  It creates a copy of the input variables
augmented by the observation distances, robust distances, and weights.
It creates robust covariance and correlation data sets in the form
which may be used as input to other SAS procedures.

=head1 Usage

The ROBCOV macro is defined with keyword parameters.  There are no
required parameters, but you should include an C<ID=> variable for more
interpretable results.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %robcov(data=hawkins, var=x1-x4 y, id=case);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of input variable names.  You may use any of the
standard SAS abbreviations for variable lists, e.g.,
C<VAR=X1-X20 Y1-Y3>, C<VAR=AGE--STORAGE>, or C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>.
[Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item ID=

Name of an observation ID variable.  This variable is
simply copied to the output C<OUT=> data set.

=item METHOD=

Robust estimation method: MVE or MCD [Default: C<METHOD=MCD>]

=item OPT=

Options for the MVE or MCD call, a list of 5 numbers controlling
the details MVE and MCD methods and printed output.  See the SAS
System Help (e.g., 'MCD call') for details on opt[].  The
default, OPT=, is usually sufficient; two of these options
may be specified more easily with the C<QUANTILE=> and C<PRINT=>
options.

=item QUANTILE=

The quantile value of the h parameter, specified as a
fraction of (n+p+1).  This value may also be specified in
terms of number of observations as the value of opt[4].
If neither C<QUANTILE=> or opt[4] are specified, the default
works out to C<QUANTILE=.5> or h=(n+p+1)/2.  This default has
a high breakdown-bound (50%) but higher values, up to about
C<QUANTILE=.75> are more efficient under milder deviations
from multivariate normality.

=item PRINT=

This parameter controls the printed output from the
macro, and should be one of the following: NONE,
SOME, ALL.  Unless C<PRINT=NONE>, opt[1] is modified.
[Default: C<PRINT=SOME>]

=item OUT=

Output data set corresponding to the input C<DATA=> data set,
with classical Mahalanobis distances (DISTANCE), robust 
distances (RDIST), and observation weights (WEIGHT).
[Default: C<OUT=OUTDATA>]

=item OUTR=

Name for the output data set containing the robust 
correlation matrix, a C<TYPE=CORR> data set.  This data set
is only produced if the C<OUTR=> name is specified;
if so, the macro fiddles with opt[3].
[Default: OUTR=]

=item OUTC=

Name for the output data set containing the robust 
covariance matrix. [Default: C<OUTC=OUTCOV>]                

=item PLOT=

If non-blank, a plot RDIST * DISTANCE is produced,
with reference lines and case labels identifying
outliers. [Default: C<PLOT=RDIST>]

=item SUBSET=

A logical expression to determine which observations
are labeled in the plot. [Default: (C<WEIGHT=0>)]

=item SYMBOL=

Value for point symbols in the plot. [Default: C<SYMBOL=DOT>]

=back 4

=head2 Notes

For best results with the graphic plot, you should specify appropriate
graphic options, such as C<HTEXT=>, C<FTEXT=>, C<HTITLE=>, C<FTITLE=> in a
C<GOPTIONS> statement.

=head1 References

Rousseeuw, P. J. (1984). "Least median of squares regression," JASA,
79, 871-880.

Rousseeuw, P. J. & Van Driessen, K. (1990) "A Fast Algorithm for the
Minimum Covariance Determinant Estimator,"  Technometrics, 41, 212-223.


