=head1 Description

The ROBUST macro uses iteratively reweighted least squares to  
fit linear models by M-estimation.  The weights are determined  
by the BISQUARE, HUBER, LAV or OLS function.  The fitting procedure 
can be PROC REG, PROC GLM or PROC LOGISTIC               

=head1 Usage

The ROBUST macro is called with keyword parameters.
The C<RESPONSE=> and C<MODEL=> parameters are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %include data(icu);
  %robust(data=icu, response=died, model=age cancer uncons admit,
     proc=logistic, id=id, iter=3);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item RESPONSE=

The name of the response variable in the model

=item MODEL=

The right-hand-side of the MODEL statement

=item PROC=

The name of the estimation procedure to be used,
one of REG, GLM, or LOGISTIC.  
[Default: C<PROC=LOGISTIC>]

=item CLASS=

The names of any CLASS variables in the MODEL (for GLM only)

=item ID=

The names of any observation ID variables.  These are
simply copied to the C<OUT=> data set.

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set of observation statistics.
[Default: C<OUT=RESIDS>]

=item OUTPARM=

The name of the output data set of parameter estimates
on the final iteration.

=item FUNCTION=

Weight function, one of C<HUBER>, C<LAV> (least absolute value),
C<BISQUARE>, or C<OLS>. [Default: C<FUNCTION=BISQUARE>]

=item TUNE=

Tuning constant for BISQUARE or HUBER.  The weighting
function is applied to the value C<_RESID_ / (&TUNE * MAD)>
where MAD is the median absolute value of the residuals.
The default is C<TUNE=6> for the BISQUARE function, and 
C<TUNE=2> for the HUBER function.

=item ITER=

The maximum number of iterations [Default: C<ITER=10>]

=item CONVERGE=

The maximum change in observation weights for convergence.
The value must have a leading 0. [Default: C<CONVERGE=0.05>]

=item PRINT=

Controls printing of intermediate and final results
[Default: C<PRINT=NOPRINT>].


=back 4
