=head1 Description

The RUG macro creates an annotate data set to draw 'rug lines'
along an axis in a plot indicating the univariate distribution
of a variable.

=head1 Usage

The RUG macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %rug(data=foo, var=X1, at=0.05, out=rug1);
  proc gplot data=foo;
     plot Y * X1 / anno=rug1 ... ;

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Name of the variable for rug plot

=item BY=

Grouping variable: if specified, rugs are produced for each
             level of the C<BY=> variable

=item CLASS=

Synonym for C<BY=>

=item ON=

Axis on which to display the VAR values [Default: C<ON=X>]

=item AT=

Location of bottom rug lines on axis, in percent coordinates.
            [Default: C<AT=0.5>]

=item HT=

Height of rug lines, in percent coordinates. [Default: C<HT=2>]

=item COLOR=

Color(s) of rug lines.  A different color is used for each
             level of the C<CLASS=> variable. [Default: C<COLOR=BLACK BLUE RED GREEN>]

=item JITTER=

Amount of random jitter applied to the C<VAR=> values.  This is
             useful when the C<VAR=> values are discrete, and would otherwise
          overplot. [Default: C<JITTER=0>]

=item COPY=

The names of any variables to be copied to output dataset

=item IN=

The name of an optional input annotate data set.  If
             specified, the C<IN=> data set is concatenated with the
          C<OUT=> data set.

=item OUT=

Name for output data set [Default: C<OUT=_RUG_>]



=back 4

