=head1 Description

The SAS2VSTA macro reads a SAS data set and produces an output file
suitable as input to ViSta.  Handles multivariate data and
frequency classification data.  Doesn't handle frequency table
data.  See: http://forrest.psych.unc.edu/research/ for information
about ViSta.

=head1 Usage

The SAS2VSTA macro is called with keyword parameters.  The C<VAR=>
parameter is required.  The arguments may be listed within
parentheses in any order, separated by commas. For example:

  %sas2vsta(data=new, var=Name Group X1 X2 X3, id=name,
     about=%str(A sample data set, converted to ViSta));

Observations may be selected by the C<WHERE=> parameter.  They appear in
the output in their order in the input data set.  Sort them first
if you want some alternative order.

By default, output is written to a file of the same name as the
SAS data set, with the extension '.lsp', in the current SAS
directory.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item DNAME=

Data name, the name of the data set for ViSta.
[Default: DNAME=&DATA]

=item VAR=

List of variable names to be output, a blank separated
list.  Variables appear in the output in the order listed,
and in the C<:VARIABLES> list in the case given.

=item FREQ=

Name of a frequency variable, if any.  Added as the last
variable, and the C<:FREQ t> flag is set.  All other variables
are treated as Category variables in this case.

=item ID=

The name(s) of observation ID variable(s), which are used
as row C<:LABELS>.  If two or more variables are given, their
values are joined using the C<SEP=> character for each observation.

=item SEP=

Separator character just to join adjacent ID variables.
If you want to use a character which the SAS macro processor
treats as special, use, e.g., C<SEP=%str(,)>.

=item ABBREV=

Maximum length of any ID variable when there are 2 or more
listed in C<ID=>.  If C<ABBREV=> is specified, each C<ID=> variable
is abbreviated to this length to construct a single observation
label.

=item WHERE=

WHERE clause to subset the observations in the output file.
Use C<WHERE=%str(var=value)> if value contains any funny characters. 

=item TITLE=

Title string for the data for ViSta [Default: TITLE=&DATA]

=item ABOUT=

C<:ABOUT> description; use %str() if it contains ','.  If
not specified, we use the data set label, if there is
one.  NB: you must use quotes, as in

  data foobar (label="My foobar data");

for the label to be accessible to this macro.

=item OUT=

Output destination, one of C<OUT=FILE, PRINT or STDOUT> 
[Default: C<OUT=FILE>]

=item OUTFILE=

Name of output LSP file. [Default: &DATA.lsp]

=item OUTDIR=

Name of output directory. [Default: Current SAS directory]

=item LS=

Output linesize [Default: 80]

=back 4

