=head1 Description

The SCATMAT macro produces a flexible scatterplot matrix, showing all
pairwise plots of n variables specified in the C<VAR=> parameter.

If a classification variable is specified with the C<GROUP=>
parameter, the value(s) of that variable determine the shape and color
of the plotting symbol.  In addition, various interpolation options
(C<INTERP=>) and annotation options (C<ANNO=>) may be used to add graphic
summaries to each pairwise plot.

=head1 Usage

The SCATMAT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %scatmat(data=auto, var=price mpg weight, group=origin);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the data set to be plotted [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

List of the variables to be plotted. This can be
              a blank-separated list, or any of the standard SAS
           abbreviations like C<VAR=X1-X4> or C<VAR=VARA--VARB>.
           The macro imposes a restriction of 15 on the number
           of variables.
           [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item NAMES=

Alternative variable names, used for labels in the diagonal
             panels.

=item GROUP=

Grouping or class variable, used to determine plot symbols
             and plot interpolations

=item INTERP=

Plot interpolation method used in each off-diagonal plot.
             For example, C<INTERP=RL> draws regression lines.
          [Default: C<INTERP=NONE>]

=item HSYM=

Height of the plot symbols in the off-diagonal panels.

=item HTITLE=

Height of variable name labels used in the diagonal panels.
             If not specified, the program uses C<HTITLE=2*NV> to try to
          preserve readability.

=item PLOTOPT=

Additional plot options passed to PROC GPLOT on the PLOT
             statement.

=item SYMBOLS=

Symbols used for points.  If there are more groups than
             symbols, the available symbols are recycled as needed.
          Use C<SYMBOLS=NONE> to suppress point symbols.
          [Default: C<SYMBOLS=CIRCLE SQUARE + : $ = X _ Y>]

=item COLORS=

Colors used for points.  If there are more groups than
             colors, the available colors are recycled as needed.
          [Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED GREEN BLUE BROWN YELLOW ORANGE PURPLE>]

=item ANNO=

You can specify one or more keywords to add additional graphic
             information to the diagonal or off-diagonal panels.
             [Default: C<ANNO=NONE>]

=over 4

=item C<ANNO=ELLIPSE> 

adds data ellipses to off-diagonal plots.

=item C<ANNO=LOWESS> 

adds smoothed loess curves.

=item C<ANNO=BOX> 

adds a marginal boxplot in the diagonal panels.

=item C<ANNO=RUG>

adds a marginal rugplot in the diagonal panels.

=back 4

=item GTEMP=

Temporary graphics catalog used to record the individual
             plots as they are produced.  This should not be the same
          as the C<GOUT=> catalog.  [Default: C<GTEMP=GTEMP>]

=item KILL=

Delete gtemp when done? [Default: C<KILL=Y>]

=item GOUT=

Name of graphic catalog for the final scatterplot matrix 
             [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head2 Dependencies

Depending on options selected, the SCATMAT macro calls several
other macros not included here.  It is assumed that these are stored
in an autocall library.  If not, you'll have to %include each one
you use.

  %gdispla  - device-independent DISPLAY/NODISPLAY control [always]
  %gensym   - generate symbol statements    [always]
  %lowess   - smoothed lowess curves        [ANNO incl. LOWESS]
  %contour  - data ellipses                 [ANNO incl. ELLIPSE]
  %boxaxis  - boxplot for diagonal panels   [ANNO incl. BOX]
  %rug      - rug plot for diagonal panels  [ANNO incl. RUG]

These are all available from http://euclid.psych.yorku.ca/ftp/sas
(though in different subdirectories).


