=head1 Description

The SORT macro generalizes the idea of sorting the observations in
a dataset to include:

=over 4

=item sorting according to the values of a user-specified format.
With
appropriate user-defined formats, this may be used to arrange the
observations in a dataset in any desired order.

=item reordering according to the values of a summary statistic 
computed 
on the values in each of serveral groups, for example, the mean or 
median of an analysis variable. Any statistic computed by 
PROC UNIVARIATE may be used.



=back 4

=head1 Usage

You must specify one or more C<BY=> variables.  To sort by the value
of a statistic, specify name the statistic with the C<BYSTAT=> parameter,
and specify the analysis variable with C<VAR=>.  To sort by formatted
values, specify the variable names and associated formats with
C<BYFMT=>.  If neither the C<BYSTAT=> or C<BYFMT=> parameters are specified,
an ordinary sort is performed.

The sort macro is called with keyword parameters.  The arguments
may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated by commas.
For example:

  %sort(by=age sex, bystat=mean, var=income);

or

  proc format;
     value age   0='Child' 1='Adult';
     %sort(by=age decending sex,  byfmt=age:age.);



=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input dataset to be sorted.  The default is the
           most recently created data set.

=item VAR=

Specifies the name of the analysis variable used for BYSTAT
           sorting.

=item OUT=

Name of the output dataset.  If not specified, the 
           output dataset replaces the input dataset.

=item BY=

Names of one or more classification (factor, grouping)
           variables to be used in sorting.  The C<BY=> argument may
           contain the keyword DESCENDING before a variable name
           for ordinary or formatted-value sorting.  For BYSTAT
           sorting, use C<ORDER=DESCENDING.  T>he C<BY=> variables may
           be character or numeric.

=item BYFMT=

A list of one or more terms, of the form, C<VAR:FMT> or
           C<VAR=FMT>, where VAR is one of the C<BY=> variables, and FMT is
           a SAS format.  Do not specify C<BYSTAT=> when sorting by
           formatted values.

=item VAR=

Name of the analysis variable to be used in determining
           the sorted order.

=item BYSTAT=

Name of the statistic, calculated for the C<VAR=> variable
           for each level of the C<BY=> variables.  BYSTAT may be the
           name of any statistic computed by PROC UNIVARIATE.

=item FREQ=

For BYSTAT sorting, specify the name of a frequency variable
           if the input data consists of grouped frequency counts.

=item ORDER=

Specify C<ORDER=DESCENDING >to sort in descending order
           when sorting by a BYSTAT.  The C<ORDER=> parameter applies
           to all C<BY=> variables in this case.

=back 4

=head1 Example

Given a frequency table of Faculty by Income, sort the faculties
so they are arranged by mean income:

  %sort(data=salary, by=Faculty, bystat=mean, var=income, freq=count);

