=head1 Description

The SPARKLINE macro draws sparklines, described by Tufte as "small, high resolution 
graphics embedded in a context of words, numbers, images."  The essential idea is
to draw a minimal, small graph that can be used inline in text and tables.
The typical usage is for time-series data.

The SPARKLINE macro is designed so that, if desired, the aspect ratio (height/width)
of the resulting small graphic can be controlled so that successive line segments
have an average slope of 45 degrees in the plot ("banking to 45 degrees").

A second macro, SPARKBAR, is designed similarly, but uses PROC GCHART rather than
PROC GPLOT to produce the graph.


=head1 Usage

The SPARKLINE macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %sparkline(data=rulers, y=years, x=order)

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item Y=

Vertical variable for the plot

=item X=

Horizontal variable for the plot

=item HEIGHT=

Height of the sparkline [Default: C<HEIGHT=12>]

=item WIDTH=

Desired width, or width=AUTO to bank to 45 degrees [Default: C<WIDTH=AUTO>]

=item UNIT=

Unit for height and width [Default: C<UNIT=PT>]

=item HAXIS=

Name of axis statement for horizontal axis

=item COLOR=

Color of the line [Default: C<COLOR=GRAY>]

=item ANNO=

Mark first/last/min/max specially? C<ANNO=DOT> adds graphic annotations
             showing the first, last, minimum and maximum points by special
          symbols, as controlled by the parameters C<VMIN=>, C<VMAX=> and so forth
          described below. [Default: C<ANNO=NONE>]

=item VMIN=

Symbol displayed at minimum data point [Default: C<VMIN=DOT>]

=item VMAX=

Symbol displayed at maximum data point [Default: C<VMAX=DOT>]

=item VLAST=

Symbol displayed at first/last data point [Default: C<VLAST=DOT>]

=item CMIN=

Colour of symbol displayed at minimum data point [Default: C<CMIN=RED>]

=item CMAX=

Colour of symbol displayed at maximum data point [Default: C<CMAX=RED>]

=item CLAST=

Colour of symbol displayed at first/last data point [Default: C<CLAST=GREEN>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=SPARK>]

=item GOUT=

Name of the graphic catalog in which the graph is written [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]


=back 4

=head1 References

=over 4

=item Davis, K., Sparklines using SAS and JMP, NESUG 2007
   L<http://www.nesug.org/Proceedings/nesug07/sa/sa06.pdf>

=item Tufte, E: "Beautiful Evidence". Graphics Press, 2006

=back 4

=head1 Examples

 %include data(rulers);
 axis1 order=(0 to 45 by 5) length=95 pct;
 %sparkline(data=rulers, y=years, x=order, anno=DOTS, haxis=axis1);

 %sparkbar(data=rulers, y=years, x=order, color=greyB0);


