=head1 Description

The SPRDPLOT macro produces a spread-level plot to determine if a simple
power transformation can equalize within-group variance of a response
variable in a dataset classified by one or more classification
variables.  This method may be extended to regression data by
dividing a continuous covariate into ordered groups by use of the
C<GROUPS=> parameter.

The spread-level plot calculates log10(Spread) and log10(Level),
where Spread is usually the Interquartile Range, and Level is usually
the Median. 

This plot has the property that *if* the relationship between
log10(Interquartile range) and log10(Median) is reasonably linear,
then the recommended power is p = 1 - slope, and the transformation
is

           / y**p,      p > 0
     y --> | log(p),    p = 0
           \ -100y**p,  p < 0

The macro chooses the best power(s) from a list of simple integers
and half-integers (C<PLIST=>), and creates new variables using those
transformations.

=head1 Usage

The SPRDPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The C<VAR=> and C<CLASS=> parameters are required.  
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %sprdplot(data=animals, var=survive, class=treat poison);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Name of the input dataset [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

[R] Name of the variable to be transformed.  Must be
             numeric, and should contain all positive values.

=item CLASS=

[R] Names of one or more class variables.  Only the first
             C<CLASS=> variable is used as point labels in the graphics
             plot.

=item GROUPS=

If the C<CLASS=> variable is continuous, use the C<GROUPS=> 
             parameter to specify the number of groups formed from
             the ordered values of the C<CLASS=> variable.  e.g.,
             C<GROUPS=10 >divides the C<CLASS=> variable into deciles.
             [Default: GROUPS=]

=item LEVEL=

The measure of location used for each group, either
             MEDIAN or MEAN [Default: C<LEVEL=M>edian]

=item SPREAD=

The measure of spread used for each group, either
             QRANGE or STD [Default: C<SPREAD=Q>range]

=item OFFSET=

Constant added to the C<VAR=> variable before transformation.
             If the variable contains negative values, OFFSET is
             set equal to the abs(minimum) value, to ensure that all values
             are positive.

=item PREFIX=

Prefix for name of transformed variable.  If the PREFIX
             is T_ and C<BEST=1>, the transformed variable is named T_&var.  
             If BEST>1, the variables are named T_1&var, T_2&var, ...
             [Default: C<PREFIX=T_>]

=item PLIST=

List of powers to consider.  Should be a blank-separated
             list of numbers in increasing order.
             [Default: PLIST=-3 -2 -1 -.5 0 .5 1 2 3]

=item BEST=

Number of best powers to transform &var [Default: C<BEST=1>]

=item PPLOT=

Produce a printer plot? [Default: C<PPLOT=N>]

=item GPLOT=

Produce a graphics plot? [Default: C<GPLOT=Y>]

=item HTEXT=

Height of text in graphics plot [Default: C<HTEXT=1.7>]

=item VAXIS=

Name of an AXIS statement for the vertical (spread) axis

=item HAXIS=

Name of an AXIS statement for the horizontal (level) axis

=item OUT=

Name of the output dataset containing the transformed
             variable [Default: OUT=&DATA]



=back 4

