=head1 Description

The STARS macro draws a star plot of the multivariate observations
in a data set.  Each observation is depicted by a star-shaped figure
with one ray for each variable, whose length is proportional to the
size of that variable.  

Each variable is scaled from 0 to 1.  The C<STD=> option permits the
variables to be standardized to a given mean and standard deviation
before this scaling.  The C<SORTBY=> option allows the observations
to be sorted by a variable or a statistic.  The C<VORDER=> option
allows the order of variables around the star to be rearranged
according to their values on a given principal component.

=head2 Method

The macro constructs an ANNOTATE data set to draw the entire display,
possibly with several pages.  The graphic ouotput is produced using
PROC GSLIDE.


=head1 Usage

The STARS macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %stars(data=auto);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

Data set to be displayed [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Names of variables, as ordered around the star,
             from angle=0 (horizontal), unless the C<VORDER=> option is used. 
          [Default: C<VAR=_NUMERIC_>]

=item ID=

Observation identifier (a character variable) 

=item STD=

Standardizes the variables first to given mean
             and (optionally) a given standard deviation.
          C<STD=0 >standardizes to mean=0; C<STD=0 1 >standardizes
          to mean=0, std=1.  By default the variables are not
          standardized, but are scaled to 0,1.


=item SORTBY=

Sorts the observations by a variable in the
             data set, or a statistic calculated across all
          variables in the C<VAR=> list.  If the C<SORTBY=>
          value end in a '.', it is assumed to be the name
          of a statistic.  For example C<SORTBY=SUM. >sorts
          by the total of scaled values for all variables.


=item VORDER=

You can specify C<VORDER=PRINn> to request that the variables are reordered
             according to their weights on the nth principal components of the correlation
          matrix, where, typically n=1 or 2. C<VORDER=ANGLE >requests that the variables
          are ordered according to the angles between variable vectors in a plot of
          the first two principal compontents,  

=item MINRAY=

Minimum ray length, a number between 0 and 1 [Default: C<MINRAY=.1>]

=item ACROSS=

Number of stars across a page [Default: C<ACROSS=6>]

=item DOWN=

Number of stars down a page. If the
             product of ACROSS and DOWN is less than the
             number of observations, multiple graphs are
             produced. [Default: C<DOWN=6>]

=item COLOR=

Specifies the color used to draw rays for individual observations, either as a 
             quoted string constant, or the name ofa variable in the input data set 
          (but don't use C<COLOR=COLOR >!) [Default: C<COLOR='BLACK'>]

=item CFILL=

Background color for the stars [Default: C<CFILL=''>]

=item RAYLINE=

Line style(s) of rays [Default: C<RAYLINE=1>]

=item RAYTHICK=

Line thickness of rays [Default: C<RAYTHICK=1>]

=item HTVLABEL=

Height of variable labels in the variable key [Default: C<HTVLABEL=2.5>]

=item A0=

Angle offset, the angle for first ray [Default: A0=0]

=item CIRCLE=

Draw a circle around each star at 100%?  A non-zero value specifies the
             line style used for the circle. [Default: C<CIRCLE=0>]

=item MISSING=

Specifies the ray length to be used when an
            observation has a missing value.  Specify C<MISSING = . > (a period)
            to have observations with missing values deleted. [Default: C<MISSING=0>]

=item NAME=

Name for graphic catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=STARS>]

=item KEYPAGE=

Draw the variable key on separate page?  If KEYPAGE is a positive number,
             a separate page for the variable key is produced.  If C<KEYPAGE=0>, the
          variable key is suppressed.  If KEYPAGE is a negative number, the
          variable key is drawn in the top left corner of the first page.
             [Default: C<KEYPAGE=1>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output ANNOTATE data set used to draw the stars. [Default: C<OUT=STARS>]


=back 4

=head2 GOPTIONS

The font used for text labels is controled by the C<FTEXT=> setting.
The C<HSIZE=> and C<VSIZE=> options should be used to scale the graph
so that the individual stars are approxmately the same height
and width.



