=head1 Description

The SURFACE macro draws a 3D color-coded surface plot, showing a contour
plot in the X-Y plane.  The result is most useful for smooth surfaces, e.g.,
for functional relations, Z=f(X,Y), bivariate density estimates computed
with PROC KDE, or with the result of PROC G3GRID.

=head2 Method

The surface and the contour plot are constructed using filled polygons
in Annotate datasets.  The contour is identical to the surface, with the
Z coordinate set to the constant 'floor'. 

=head1 Usage

The SURFACE macro is defined with keyword parameters.  The C<X=>, C<Y=> and
C<Z=> parameters are required.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %surface(x=temperature, y=pressure, z=yield);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item X=

X variable for plot [Default: C<X=X>]

=item Y=

Y variable for plot [Default: C<Y=Y>]

=item Z=

Z variable for plot [Default: C<Z=Z>]

=item WHERE=

Where clause to subset the data

=item COLORS=

Color scheme (HLS|HLSllss) or list of colors. C<COLORS=HLS> generates 
             C<NLEVELS=> colors varying in hue in the HLS color scheme Hhhh80FF.
             C<COLORS=HLS>llss, where llss are hex digits, generates HLS colors
          with lightness ll and saturations ss.  Otherwise, C<COLORS=> is taken
          as a blank separated list of SAS colors of length C<NLEVELS=>.
          [Default: C<COLORS=HLS>]

=item NLEVELS=

Number of levels for color [Default: C<NLEVELS=12>]

=item TICKNUM=

Number of tick marks on axes.  Specify 1-3 values, for X, Y and Z. [Default: C<TICKNUM=5>]

=item DROP=

Amount to drop contour plot beneath lowest z-value, in data units. [Default: C<DROP=1>]

=item TILT=

G3D TILT value(s): One or more numbers giving the number of degrees
             to tilt the plot. [Default: C<TILT=75>]

=item ROTATE=

G3D ROTATE value(s): One or more numbers giving the number of degrees
             to rotate the plot. [Default: C<ROTATE=40>]

=item FUZZ=

Fuzz value for binning X, Y [Default: C<FUZZ=1E-6>]

=item OPTIONS=

REVERSE and/or NOGRID.  When C<COLORS=HLS>, C<OPTIONS=REVERSE> reverses the
             assignment of colors to heights (C<Z=> values) in the plot.

=item ANNO=

Additional input annotate data set

=item OUTANNO=

Output annotate data set used with G3D [Default: C<OUTANNO=SURFANNO>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>]

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=SURFACE>]


=back 4

=head1 Example

  *-- Generate bivariate normal data;
  data bivar;
    do i = 1 to 10000;
      x = rannor(2140);
      y = -x + 3* rannor(2140);
      output;
    end;
  run;

  *-- Do bivariate density estimation;
  proc kde data=bivar out=kdeout;
    var x y;
  run;

  %include macros(surface);
  %surface(data=kdeout, x=x, y=y, z=density,
      where=-3<x<3)


