=head1 Description

The SYMPLOT macro produces a variety of plots for diagnosing symmetry
of a distribution and finding a power transformation to make the
distribution more symmetric. 

=over 4

=item PLOT=UPLO

Upper distance-to-median vs. Lower distance-to-median.  Plots
            as a 45 degree line for a symmetric distribution.

=item PLOT=MIDSPR

Mid value vs. Spread.  Plots as a horizontal line for a symmetric distribution.

=item PLOT=MIDZSR

Mid value vs. Squared normal quantile

=item PLOT=POWER

Centered mid value vs. Squared spread measure. (1-slope) in this plot 
            usually indicates a reasonable power for a tranformation to symmetry. 


=back 4

=head1 Usage

The SYMPLOT macro is defined with keyword parameters.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  %symplot(data=auto, var=Price, plot=POWER, trim=5 pct); 



=over 4

=head2 Parameters

=item DATA=

The name of the input data set [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

The name of the variable to be analyzed.

=item PLOT=

Type of plot(s): NONE, or any one or more of
             UPLO, MIDSPR, MIDZSQ, or POWER.  One plot is
             produced for each keyword included in the C<PLOT=>
             parameter. [Default: C<PLOT=MIDSPR POWER>] 

=item TRIM=

Specifies the number or percent of extreme observations  to be 
             trimmed.  The C<TRIM=> optionis most useful in the POWER plot.
             [Default: C<TRIM=5 PCT>]

=item OUT=

The name of the output data set [Default: C<OUT=SYMPLOT>]

=item SYMBOL=

Observation plot symbol [Default: C<SYMBOL=DOT>]

=item VAXIS=

Axis statement for vertical axis

=item HAXIS=

Axis statement for horizontal axis

=item NAME=

The name of the graph in the graphic catalog [Default: C<NAME=SYMPLOT>]

=item GOUT=

The name of the output graphics catalog [Default: C<GOUT=GSEG>] 


=back 4

