=head1 Description

The TABLE macro constructs a grouped frequency table suitable for
input to the MOSAIC or MOSMAT macros.  The input data may be
individual observations, or a contingency table,  which may be
collapsed to fewer variables.  Factor variables may be converted
to character using user-supplied formats.

=head1 Usage

The TABLE macro takes 7 keyword arguments.  The C<VAR=> parameter
is required.

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of the input dataset.  [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

Names of all factor (classification) variables to be
included in the
output dataset.  The observations are summed over
any other factors, weighted by the C<WEIGHT=> variable,
if any.

=item CHAR=

If non-blank, forces the C<VAR=> variables to be
converted to character variables (using formatted
values) in the output dataset.  If C<CHAR=> a
numeric value (e.g., C<CHAR=8>), it specifies the
length of each character variable; otherwise, the
character variables default to length 16.

=item WEIGHT=

Name of a frequency variable, if the input dataset
is already in frequency form.
If not specified, each observation is assumed to be
one case.

=item ORDER=

Specifies the order of the variable levels used
in the PROC FREQ step.  C<ORDER=INTERNAL|FREQ|DATA|
FORMATTED> are valid option values.

=item FORMAT=

A list of variable(s), format pairs (suitable for a
FORMAT statement).  The C<FORMAT=> option may be used
to recode the values of any of the C<VAR=> variables.

=item OUT=

The name of output dataset.  The variables in the output
dataset are the C<VAR=> variables, plus COUNT, the
frequency variable for each cell. [Default: C<OUT=TABLE>]


=back 4

=head1 Limitations

None of the factor variables may be named C<COUNT>.

=head1 Example

This example reads a three-way frequency table (gender x admit x dept),
where admit and dept are numeric variables, and collapses it to a
two-way table, with Gender and Admit as character variables.

  %include data(berkeley);
  %table(data=berkeley, var=gender admit, weight=freq, char=Y,
         format=admit admit. gender $sex., order=data, out=berk2);
  %mosaic(data=berk2, var=Gender Admit);

The formats C<admit.> and C<$sex.> are created with proc format:

  proc format;
     value admit 1="Admitted" 0="Rejected";
     value $sex  'M'='Male'   'F'='Female';


