=head1 Description

The TRIPLOT macro plots three variables (rows of an n x 3 table)
in an equilateral triangle, so that each point represents the
proportions of each variable to the total for that observation.

=head1 Usage

The TRIPLOT macro is called with keyword parameters.
The names of three variables must be given in the C<VAR=> parameter.
The arguments may be listed within parentheses in any order, separated
by commas. For example: 

  data tridemo;
     input A B C point $12.;
     label point='Point';
  cards;
  40 30 30  (40,30,30)
  20 60 20  (20,60,20)
  10 10 80  (10,10,80)
  ;
  %triplot(var=A B C, class=Point, id=point, gridby=25,
     symbols=dot dot dot, idht=1.6, axes=bot,
     symht=4, gridclr=gray);

=head2 Parameters

=over 4

=item DATA=

The name of data set to be plotted. [Default: C<DATA=_LAST_>]

=item VAR=

The names of three variables used as the axes in the
plot.  The values of each observation are normally all
non-negative.  Missing values are treated as 0.

=item CLASS=

The name of a class variable determining plotting symbol.
Different values of the C<CLASS=> variable are represented
by the values in the C<COLORS=> and C<SYMBOLS=> lists, used
sequentially.

=item ID=

The name of an observation identifier (label) variable

=item BY=

The name of a BY variable, for separate plots

=item WHERE=

WHERE-clause to subset observations to be plotted.

=item IDHT=

Height of ID label [Default: C<IDHT=2>]

=item IDCLR=

Color of ID label [Default: C<IDCLR='BLACK'>]

=item IDPOS=

Position of ID label [Default: C<IDPOS=8>]

=item IDSUBSET=

A SAS expression (which may use any data set variables
used to subset ID labels.  If an C<ID=> variable is given,
and the C<IDSUBSET=> expression evaluates to non-zero,
the observation is labelled in the plot.
[Default: C<IDSUBSET=1>]

=item INTERP=

Interpolation between points, a SYMBOL statement option.
If C<INTERP=JOIN>, points within the same C<CLASS=> value are
connected by lines.  Most other SYMBOL statement
interpolation options would give bizare results.
[Default: C<INTERP=NONE>]

=item SYMHT=

Height of point symbols [Default: C<SYMHT=2>]

=item SYMBOLS=

A list of one or more symbols for points, corresponding
to the levels of the C<CLASS=> variable.  The symbols are
reused cyclically if there are more class levels than
symbols.
[Default: C<SYMBOLS=%STR(DOT CIRCLE SQUARE $ : TRIANGLE = X _ Y>)]

=item COLORS=

A list of one or more colors for points, corresponding
to the levels of the C<CLASS=> variable.  The colors are
also reused cyclically as required.
[Default: C<COLORS=BLACK RED BLUE GREEN BROWN ORANGE PURPLE YELLOW>]

=item BACKCLR=

Background color inside the trilinear plot.
[Default: C<BACKCLR=WHITE>]

=item BACKPAT=

Background fill pattern. For a plot with a light gray
background, for example, specify C<BACKPAT=SOLID >and
C<BACKCLR=GRAYD0. >[Default: C<BACKPAT=EMPTY>]

=item GRIDBY=

Grid line interval. For grid lines at 25, 50, and 75%,
for example, specify C<GRIDBY=25. >[Default: C<GRIDBY=20>]

=item GRIDCLR=

Grid line color [Default: C<GRIDCLR=GRAY>]

=item GRIDLINE=

Style of grid lines [Default: C<GRIDLINE=34>]

=item AXES=

Type of axes, one of NONE, FULL, TOP, or BOT.
C<AXES=NONE >draws no coordinate axes;  C<AXES=FULL >draws
a line from 0 to 100% for each of the three coordinates;
C<AXES=TOP >draws a line from the apex to the centroid only;
C<AXES=BOT >draws a line from the centroid to the base only. 
[Default: C<AXES=NONE>]

=item AXISCLR=

Color of axis lines [Default: C<AXISCLR=BLUE>]

=item AXISLINE=

Style of axis lines [Default: C<AXISLINE=1>]

=item XOFF=

X offset, in %, for adjusting the plot [Default: C<XOFF=2>]

=item XSCALE=

X scale factor for adjusting the plot.  Before plotting
the X coordinates are adjusted by C<X = XOFF + XSCALE * X>.
[Default: C<XSCALE=.96>]

=item YOFF=

X offset, in %, for adjusting the plot [Default: C<YOFF=2>]

=item YSCALE=

Y scale factor for adjusting the plot.  Before plotting
the Y coordinates are adjusted by C<Y = YOFF + YSCALE * Y>.
[Default: C<YSCALE=.96>]

=item LEGEND=

The name of legend statement or 'NONE'.  If C<LEGEND=> is
not specified, and there is more than one group defined
by a C<CLASS=> variable, a legend statement is constructed
internally. If C<LEGEND=NONE>, no legend is drawn; otherwise
the C<LEGEND=> value is used as the name of a legend statement.

=item LABHT=

Height of variable labels, in GUNITs [Default: C<LABHT=2>]

=item LABLOC=

Location of variable label: 0 or 100 [Default: C<LABLOC=100>]

=item NAME=

Name of the graphics catalog entry [Default: C<NAME=TRIPLT>]

=back 4
